--- Page 1 ---
 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Ad Hoc Networks
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/adhoc  
A multi-objective task offloading and resource allocation in 
blockchain-enabled IoT networks
Nasim Nezhadsistani a,b
 , Naghmeh S. Moayedian a
 , Arash Bozorgchenani c
 ,∗, 
Burkhard Stiller b
a Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan 84156-83111, Iran
b Department of Informatics, University of Zurich, Switzerland
c School of Computer Science, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK
A R T I C L E  I N F O
Keywords:
Internet of Things (IoT)
Multi-objective optimization
Blockchain
Mobile Edge Computing (MEC)
Computational offloading
NSGA-II
Resource allocation
Energy efficiency
 A B S T R A C T
The integration of Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) and Blockchain has emerged as an efficient approach to 
support the development of secure and delay-sensitive Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Despite these 
advantages, blockchain-enabled IoT systems face a fundamental challenge because the security and trust 
benefits of blockchain are accompanied by additional computation and communication overheads that can 
degrade latency and energy efficiency in resource-constrained environments. This paper develops a unified 
multi-objective optimization framework for task offloading and resource allocation in blockchain-enabled IoT 
networks. The considered system architecture incorporates IoT devices, MEC servers, and a cloud data center 
while explicitly modeling blockchain operations as part of the offloading process.
A multi-objective optimization problem is formulated to jointly minimize total system latency and energy 
consumption while maximizing the aggregate reputation of the selected blockchain management nodes. 
To solve this problem, two evolutionary solution approaches are employed. The Non-dominated Sorting 
Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA-II) is used to identify Pareto-optimal trade-off solutions, and a Genetic Algorithm 
(GA) is adopted to solve a weighted-sum scalarized formulation. Comprehensive simulation results indicate 
a demonstrable trade-off between latency and energy consumption. Specifically, the analysis reveals that 
prioritizing high-reputation nodes for blockchain consensus roles significantly reduces transaction verification 
latency, thereby enhancing the overall system performance despite the operational overheads. The framework 
allows stakeholders to select solutions that best meet specific IoT application requirements.
1. Introduction
The Internet of Things (IoT) has emerged as an important paradigm 
in the development of the foundations of the digital infrastructure 
of the current era, which has enabled the interconnection of a wide 
range of sensing, computing, and communication technologies in var-
ious domains such as smart cities, industrial automation, intelligent 
transportation, healthcare, and environmental monitoring [1,2]. This 
has generated enormous volumes of data, placing significant pressure 
on data processing, storage, and management infrastructure [3,4]. 
Moreover, the IoT devices are generally limited in their computing, 
storage, and battery capabilities, thereby restricting their ability to 
process computationally intensive tasks locally [5,6]. Thus, efficient 
computation offloading has become an important requirement for sat-
isfying the latency, reliability, and scalability demands of modern IoT 
applications.
∗ Correspondence to: School of Computer Science, University of Leeds, Sir William Henry Bragg Building, Woodhouse Lane, Leeds, LS2  9JT, UK.
E-mail address: a.bozorgchenani@leeds.ac.uk (A. Bozorgchenani).
Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) has been recognized as an effective 
architectural solution to these limitations by providing computation 
and storage resources in close proximity to end devices [7]. By transfer-
ring task execution from resource-constrained devices to nearby edge 
servers, MEC can reduce end-to-end latency, relieve backbone network 
congestion, and improve Quality of Service (QoS) for delay-sensitive 
applications [8,9]. However, the migration from centralized cloud-
centric processing to distributed edge environments also introduces 
important system-level challenges, particularly with respect to trust 
management, data integrity, privacy preservation, and coordination 
across multiple administrative entities [10,11].
Blockchain has gained significant attention as a viable approach to 
addressing these issues within decentralized IoT ecosystems. Beyond its 
original association with cryptocurrency systems, blockchain provides a 
distributed and tamper-resistant ledger that enables transparent record 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2026.104361
Received 28 March 2026; Received in revised form 8 July 2026; Accepted 15 July 2026
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
Available online 25 July 2026 
1570-8705/© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). 

--- Page 2 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
keeping, auditable interactions, and decentralized coordination without 
reliance on a fully trusted central authority [12–15]. Within IoT ecosys-
tems, these characteristics are particularly valuable for secure data 
provenance, access control, and trustworthy service interactions among 
heterogeneous devices and stakeholders [16–18]. However, the incor-
poration of blockchain into resource-constrained IoT-MEC systems in-
troduces non-negligible costs. Consensus execution, transaction dissem-
ination, block generation, block verification, and feedback propagation 
may impose considerable latency and energy overheads, which can sig-
nificantly degrade system performance in delay-sensitive and energy-
constrained applications, particularly when computationally intensive 
consensus mechanisms are employed [19,20].
Although the literature on MEC-based task offloading and the lit-
erature on blockchain-enabled IoT security have both developed sub-
stantially, their intersection remains insufficiently investigated from an 
integrated system optimization perspective. In many existing studies, 
offloading and resource allocation are optimized while security-related 
processing costs are simplified or ignored. On the other hand, research 
focused on blockchain applications tends to emphasize the security 
benefits of blockchain architecture without explicitly modeling detailed 
operational costs in performance-concerned optimization models. Such 
a distinction is not suitable in a secure IoT-MEC environment, where 
computation offloading and blockchain operations compete for limited 
communication and computational resources and jointly affect latency 
and energy performance. An integrated optimization framework is thus 
required to consider computation offloading decisions and detailed 
latency and energy costs of blockchain operations.
To address this research gap, this article proposes a unified multi-
objective optimization model for secure task offloading in blockchain-
enabled IoT-MEC systems. In particular, the proposed optimization 
model accounts for both computational tasks and blockchain operations 
and explicitly considers trade-offs among latency, energy consumption, 
and blockchain management quality through node reputation. In terms 
of solution approaches, both Pareto evolutionary and scalar optimiza-
tion are employed to tackle the proposed optimization model. The 
main novelty of this work should be interpreted at the system-modeling 
and optimization-framework level. In particular, this paper does not 
claim that NSGA-II or GA are newly invented algorithms. Instead, these 
algorithms are used as solution engines for the proposed mixed-integer 
nonlinear optimization problem. The primary contribution is a uni-
fied blockchain-aware IoT–MEC optimization framework that explicitly 
couples task offloading, computational resource allocation, blockchain-
stage latency/energy overheads, and reputation-aware consensus-role 
assignment. The main contributions of this work are summarized as 
follows:
• An integrated architecture combining IoT, MEC, and cloud ser-
vices has been developed, which incorporates blockchain mecha-
nisms. In this setup, MEC/cloud nodes function as both computa-
tional servers and blockchain management nodes.
• A comprehensive multi-objective optimization problem has been 
formulated to minimize system latency and total energy con-
sumption while maximizing the overall reputation of the se-
lected blockchain management nodes. This formulation explicitly 
links computation offloading, CPU resource allocation, and the 
assignment of blockchain consensus roles.
• Blockchain operational overhead is modeled in a stage-wise man-
ner, including block generation, block transmission, verification, 
broadcasting, and feedback propagation. This avoids the over-
simplified assumption of a fixed blockchain delay or a single 
aggregated blockchain cost.
• A constraint-aware evolutionary solution framework has been de-
veloped. NSGA-II is employed to approximate the Pareto-optimal 
trade-off surface, while a Genetic Algorithm (GA) is utilized 
to identify a scalarized operating point based on the prefer-
ence weights specified by the network operator. To enhance the 
practicality of the solution process, techniques such as feasibility-
preserving initialization, constraint-repair, and penalty-based
handling are integrated.
• Extensive performance evaluation is provided, including com-
parisons with representative baselines, ablation studies, sensi-
tivity analysis, dynamic channel conditions, verifier-node fail-
ures, computational-complexity analysis, and implementation-
overhead discussion.
Each component of the proposed framework serves a distinct role. 
The MEC offloading process is designed to decrease the time needed for 
completing tasks through transferring computations from constrained 
IoT devices to adjacent edge servers. Blockchain technology offers 
decentralization, trustworthiness, data immutability, and auditing for 
the results of performed tasks and their associated services. Reputation-
aware selection helps obtain better consensus node selections since it 
favors more reliable and competent nodes. NSGA-II can find Pareto-
optimal solutions, while GA-based scalarized formulation gives an op-
timal solution point under given criteria.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 re-
views the most relevant literature. Section 3 presents the system model. 
Section 4 formulates the optimization problem. Section 5 describes 
the proposed solution methods. Section 6 reports and discusses the 
simulation results. Finally, Section 7 concludes the paper and outlines 
future research directions.
2. Related work
The challenges of resource allocation and task offloading in IoT and 
MEC environments have been extensively investigated, with a parallel 
stream of research exploring the integration of blockchain for enhanced 
security:
2.1. Task offloading and resource allocation in MEC
Early studies on task offloading predominantly concentrated on 
single-objective optimization, such as minimizing latency [29] or en-
ergy consumption [30]. These problems are typically formulated as 
Mixed-Integer Non-Linear Programming (MINLPs) and are known as 
NP-hard. As a result, heuristic and meta-heuristic algorithms have 
gained extensive adoption. Numerous studies have utilized Genetic 
Algorithms (GA) [31], Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) [32], and 
simulated annealing to identify near-optimal solutions. Recently, Re-
inforcement Learning (RL) and Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) 
have acquired prominence for their capacity to execute dynamic of-
floading judgments in fluctuating contexts [33,34]. However, single-
objective RL methods frequently encounter difficulties when attempting 
to concurrently balance several conflicting objectives. To address this, 
multi-objective approaches have been proposed to jointly optimize 
latency and energy consumption, for instance, by utilizing NSGA-II 
to find Pareto-optimal fronts [29]. Nevertheless, such existing multi-
objective frameworks typically do not account for the additional com-
putation and communication overheads introduced by security and 
privacy mechanisms like blockchain.
Coordinated resource allocation, task scheduling and intelligent 
offloading are also heavily highlighted in recent studies in hetero-
geneous edge systems. In CPSS, SerFlow explores the end-edge-cloud 
collaboration workflow applications and emphasizes the necessity of 
a service-enhanced scheduling and resource coordination in resource-
limited collaborative systems [35]. There have also been attempts on 
the joint offloading decisions and computation resource allocation for 
vehicular-fog computing systems, where both computation and com-
munication resources are jointly optimized for vehicular services with 
delay sensitivity [36]. Further, the optimization for digital-twin-aided 
vehicular networks by using the SAC-based offloading and resource-
allocation optimization is found to be an important research field for 
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
2 

--- Page 3 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Table 1
Comparison between the proposed framework and representative related studies.
 Study MEC offloading Resource allocation Blockchain overhead Reputation-aware consensus Multi-objective Dynamic evaluation 
 MEC offloading studies [21,22] ✓ ✓ – – Partial Partial  
 Blockchain-enabled MEC studies [23,24] ✓ Partial Aggregated/fixed Partial – Partial  
 Multi-objective offloading studies [25,26] ✓ ✓ – – ✓ Partial  
 DRL-based secure offloading [27] ✓ ✓ Partial Partial Scalarized ✓  
 MOEA/D-based offloading [28] ✓ ✓ – – ✓ Partial  
 Proposed framework ✓ ✓ Stage-wise ✓ ✓ ✓  
dynamic vehicular edge systems [37]. The reliability-aware computa-
tion offloading for delay-sensitive MEC-enabled aerial computing also 
shows that reliability must be taken into account in addition to delay 
and energy goals in MEC scenarios [38].
2.2. Blockchain integration in IoT and MEC
Blockchain has been employed in IoT systems for secure data shar-
ing [39], access control [40], and supply chain management [41]. 
Several studies have proposed integrating blockchain with MEC to 
establish a secure and decentralized edge-cloud computing contin-
uum [42,43]. For instance [44] proposed a blockchain-based data shar-
ing framework for MEC, and the authors in [45] designed a lightweight 
blockchain mechanism for industrial IoT. However, many of these stud-
ies focus mainly on security architectures while giving limited attention 
to the performance implications of blockchain integration (e.g., the 
latency and energy overheads incurred by block generation, consen-
sus, and propagation). This oversight may lead to underestimated 
costs when the blockchain is deployed in latency and energy-sensitive 
systems [46].
2.3. Multi-objective optimization for joint problems
The authors in [47] proposed an NSGA-II-based approach for task 
scheduling in a UAV-enabled MEC system, deriving a set of trade-
off solutions under UAV-assisted edge constraints rather than a single 
operating point. [6] employed NSGA-II for task offloading and re-
source scheduling in mobile edge-cloud computing, leveraging task 
prediction and an edge-competition mechanism to better capture the 
energy-latency trade-off in dynamic environments. [48] presented a 
blockchain-based resource allocation mechanism that explicitly aims at 
balancing efficiency and security, illustrating how blockchain consider-
ations can reshape allocation priorities in vehicular networks.
Despite these advances, comparatively fewer studies provide a uni-
fied optimization model that simultaneously captures computation of-
floading decisions and detailed blockchain processing overheads in IoT-
MEC systems [30,49,50]. In many existing formulations, the latency 
and energy implications of Blockchain Offloading Processes (BOPs) 
are either omitted or represented at a level of abstraction that limits 
the realism of system-level evaluation. Moreover, prior studies of-
ten assess security-enhanced offloading frameworks under simplified 
assumptions on blockchain processing dynamics, such as fixed con-
sensus delay or aggregated communication cost, which can obscure 
the actual trade-offs in heterogeneous environments where blockchain 
functions and application tasks compete for limited resources. Conse-
quently, the feasibility and efficiency of secure offloading strategies 
may be overestimated when detailed blockchain-stage costs are not 
explicitly modeled. In contrast, the present study develops a unified 
multi-objective formulation that jointly models computation offloading 
and blockchain-related latency-energy overheads, while also incor-
porating the reputation of blockchain management nodes into the 
optimization process.
As shown in Table  1, most research work focuses on offloading 
computation tasks and allocation of system resources in an MEC en-
vironment where minimizing latency and energy consumption can 
be considered scalarized objectives or partial multiple-objectives [21,
22]. The use of blockchain to enhance MEC improves data reliabil-
ity, trustworthiness, or transaction management; however, blockchain 
overhead is indirectly addressed in terms of blockchain system-level 
metrics or through blockchain architecture design for enhanced secu-
rity, rather than stage-by-stage latency-energy cost calculation [23,24]. 
Offloading research that considers multi-objective MEC environments 
can optimize delay, energy cost, or other performance metric using 
Pareto optimization approach; still, they do not consider blockchain 
consensus cost or reputation-driven node participation in blockchain 
consensus procedure [25,26]. Likewise, approaches based on DRL and 
MOEA/D offer more robustness in dynamic network environments 
through their respective algorithms but ignore blockchain overhead 
costs and reputation-driven node selection for the blockchain layer [27,
28]. 
3. System model
A hierarchical, blockchain-based IoT architecture for computational 
offloading is considered, as seen in Fig.  1. The system consists of 
four main entities: IoT devices, MEC servers, a central cloud server, 
and a decentralized blockchain network. IoT devices including sen-
sors, actuators, and other intelligent nodes, collect data and execute 
computation-intensive operations. According to their limited local re-
sources, these tasks are offloaded to nearby MEC servers. The MEC 
servers provide computational capacity and operate as nodes inside 
the blockchain network. A central cloud server, symbolizing a primary 
data center, provides almost limitless processing capacity and concur-
rently engages in the blockchain network. The blockchain provides 
the foundation of the decentralized trust framework, offering a secure, 
unchangeable, and auditable public ledger for all essential transactions 
(e.g., task outcomes, data access records). The network comprises MEC 
servers and a cloud server, functioning as blockchain nodes. Within 
the overall framework of this architecture, the servers assume two key 
roles: one as computational platforms for executing tasks that were 
offloaded, and another as nodes of the blockchain that are engaged 
in validating transactions and executing consensus. This level of func-
tional integration is critical in ensuring that there is efficiency in the 
system, but at the same time raises more stringent demands in terms of 
resource management and coordination [51]. Once the tasks have been 
executed, transactions are created and propagated to the blockchain in 
order to log the outcomes of tasks or metadata associated with tasks. A 
block manager is responsible for aggregating a set of transactions into 
a candidate block that is appended to the blockchain after consensus 
among verifier nodes.
The task allocation and the distribution of resources are expressed 
by the binary task assignment matrix 𝐗 ∈ {0, 1}(𝑁+2)×(𝑀+1), and the 
non-negative resource allocation matrix 𝐅 ∈ R(𝑁+2)×(𝑀+1)
≥0 , as depicted 
by (1)–(2), respectively. The columns 1∶𝑀 denote the MEC servers, 
whereas the 𝑚 =𝑀+1 represents the cloud. The rows 1∶𝑁 correspond 
to the device tasks, and the last two rows (𝑁+1 and 𝑁+2) correspond 
to selecting the block manager and the verifier(s) of the blockchain 
network, respectively. The entry 𝑥𝑛,𝑚 = 1 implies that the task or the 
role of the blockchain in row 𝑛 is assigned to the MEC server 𝑚. The 
entries 𝑓𝑛,𝑚 denote the CPU frequency, in cycles per second, allocated 
to the task or role of the blockchain network by the MEC server 𝑚. 
It is assumed that each task is assigned to only one column of matrix 
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
3 

--- Page 4 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Fig. 1. System architecture for blockchain-based computational offloading in IoT network.
𝐗; i.e., each task is assigned to only one MEC server or the cloud. 
The block-manager row has a single ‘‘1’’ among MEC columns, and the 
verifier row may contain one or more ‘‘1’’s. Resource feasibility requires ∑𝑁+2
𝑛=1 𝑓𝑛,𝑚 ≤ 𝐹 max
𝑚  for each server 𝑚 (and similarly for the cloud), and 
consistency enforces 𝑓𝑛,𝑚 = 0 whenever 𝑥𝑛,𝑚 = 0. The key notations are 
summarized in Table  2. 
𝐗 =
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
𝑥1,1 𝑥1,2 ⋯ 𝑥1,𝑀 𝑥1,𝑀+1
𝑥2,1 𝑥2,2 ⋯ 𝑥2,𝑀 𝑥2,𝑀+1
⋮ ⋮ ⋱ ⋮ ⋮
𝑥𝑁,1 𝑥𝑁,2 ⋯ 𝑥𝑁,𝑀 𝑥𝑁,𝑀 +1
𝑥𝑁+1,1 𝑥𝑁+1,2 ⋯ 𝑥𝑁+1,𝑀 𝑥𝑁+1,𝑀+1
𝑥𝑁+2,1 𝑥𝑁+2,2 ⋯ 𝑥𝑁+2,𝑀 𝑥𝑁+2,𝑀+1
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
IoT Device 1
IoT Device 2
⋮
IoT Device 𝑁
Block Manager
Verifier
(1)
𝐅 =
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
𝑓1,1 𝑓1,2 ⋯ 𝑓1,𝑀 𝑓1,𝑀+1
𝑓2,1 𝑓2,2 ⋯ 𝑓2,𝑀 𝑓2,𝑀+1
⋮ ⋮ ⋱ ⋮ ⋮
𝑓𝑁,1 𝑓𝑁,2 ⋯ 𝑓𝑁,𝑀 𝑓𝑁,𝑀 +1
𝑓𝑁+1,1 𝑓𝑁+1,2 ⋯ 𝑓𝑁+1,𝑀 𝑓𝑁+1,𝑀+1
𝑓𝑁+2,1 𝑓𝑁+2,2 ⋯ 𝑓𝑁+2,𝑀 𝑓𝑁+2,𝑀+1
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
IoT Device 1
IoT Device 2
⋮
IoT Device 𝑁
Block Manager
Verifier
(2)
3.1. Task offloading model
The system consists of 𝑁 IoT devices, denoted by the set  =
{1, 2, …,𝑁 }, and 𝑀 MEC servers, denoted by the set  = {1, 2, …,𝑀 }. 
Each task 𝑛 ∈  generated by an IoT Device is characterized by a 
tuple ⟨𝐷𝑛,𝐶𝑛,𝑙𝑛⟩, where 𝐷𝑛 is the size of the input data (in bits), 𝐶𝑛 is 
the computational workload (in CPU cycles required for completion), 
and 𝑙𝑛 is the task’s maximum tolerable delay, or deadline (in seconds). 
This deadline parameter inherently categorizes the incoming workload 
into varying levels of priority, effectively creating the urgent and non-
urgent task flows depicted in the system architecture (Fig.  1). By 
incorporating 𝑙𝑛 into the optimization constraints, the system ensures 
that delay-sensitive (urgent) tasks are prioritized appropriately.
A flexible offloading strategy is employed where a task can be 
offloaded to either one of the 𝑀 MEC servers or to the central cloud 
server (denoted as server 𝑀 + 1). The decision is based on optimizing 
system-wide objectives such as latency and energy consumption.
3.2. Communication model
The wireless communication links between the IoT Devices and MEC 
servers are modeled. The uplink data transmission rate from IoT Device 
𝑛 to MEC server 𝑚 is determined by the Shannon-Hartley theorem: 
𝑟𝑛𝑚 =𝐵𝑛𝑚 log2
(
1 + 𝑃𝑛|𝑔𝑛𝑚|2
𝜔
)
(3)
where 𝐵𝑛𝑚 is the allocated channel bandwidth, 𝑃𝑛 is the transmission 
power of IoT Device 𝑛, 𝑔𝑛𝑚 is the channel gain between them, and 𝜔 is 
the background noise power.
Similarly, the backhaul communication rate from MEC server 𝑚 to 
the cloud server is given by: 
𝑟𝑐
𝑚 =𝐵𝑐
𝑚 log2
(
1 +
𝑃𝑚|𝑔𝑐
𝑚|2
𝜔
)
(4)
where 𝑃𝑚 is the transmission power of MEC server 𝑚 and 𝐵𝑐
𝑚 is its 
backhaul bandwidth.
3.3. Computational offloading latency and energy model
The total time to execute task 𝑛 on MEC server 𝑚 consists of the 
transmission time and the computation time: 
𝑇 MEC
𝑛𝑚 = 𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑛𝑚
+ 𝐶𝑛
𝑓𝑛𝑚
(5)
If the task is offloaded to the cloud via MEC server 𝑚, the total time 
includes the ID-to-MEC transmission, MEC-to-cloud transmission, and 
cloud computation time: 
𝑇 Cloud
𝑛 = 𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑛𝑚
+ 𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑐
𝑚
+ 𝐶𝑛
𝑓𝑛,𝑀+1
(6)
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
4 

--- Page 5 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Table 2
Nomenclature.
 Notation Description  
  = {1, …,𝑁 } IoT devices (size 𝑁).  
  = {1, …,𝑀 } MEC servers (size 𝑀).  
 ⟨𝐷𝑛,𝐶𝑛, 𝓁𝑛⟩ Task 𝑛: input 𝐷𝑛 (bits), workload 𝐶𝑛 (cycles), deadline 𝓁𝑛 (s).  
 𝐵𝑛𝑚 Uplink bandwidth from device 𝑛 to MEC server 𝑚.  
 𝑃𝑛 Transmission power of device 𝑛 (W).  
 𝑔𝑛𝑚 Channel gain between device 𝑛 and MEC server 𝑚.  
 𝑟𝑛𝑚 Uplink rate from device 𝑛 to MEC server 𝑚 (bit/s).  
 𝐵𝑐
𝑚 Backhaul bandwidth from MEC server 𝑚 to cloud.  
 𝑃𝑚 Transmission power of MEC server 𝑚 (W).  
 𝑔𝑐
𝑚 Backhaul channel gain between MEC server 𝑚 and cloud.  
 𝑟𝑐
𝑚 Backhaul rate from MEC server 𝑚 to cloud (bit/s).  
 𝐅 CPU allocation matrix; 𝑓𝑛,𝑚 is the CPU allocated by server 𝑚 to task 𝑛 (cycles/s). 
 𝑘comp
𝑚 , 𝑘comp
𝑐 CPU capacitance coefficients of MEC server 𝑚 and cloud.  
 𝑊 (𝐗) Total reputation of selected blockchain nodes.  
 𝑛Tr Number of transactions per block.  
 𝐷Tr Average transaction size (bits).  
 𝐶Tr CPU cycles per bit for block creation.  
 𝐶ver CPU cycles required for verification.  
 𝑂 Feedback size (bits).  
 𝑟𝑑, 𝑟𝑢 Average downlink and uplink rates (bit/s).  
 𝜓 Broadcast overhead factor.  
 𝑝𝑚, 𝑝𝑣 Transmission power of MEC server 𝑚 and verifier 𝑣 (W).  
 𝐹𝑚, 𝐹𝑐 Maximum CPU capacity of MEC server 𝑚 and cloud (cycles/s).  
 𝑆𝑇 Slot length (s).  
 𝑉 Number of verifiers.  
Fig. 2. Workflow of the Enhanced Delegated Proof of Stake (EDPoS) consensus mechanism used in the IoT network.
Thus, the total offloading latency for task 𝑛, 𝑇 Off
𝑛 , is: 
𝑇 Off
𝑛 (𝐗, 𝐅) =
𝑀∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑛,𝑚𝑇 MEC
𝑛𝑚 +𝑥𝑛,𝑀+1𝑇 Cloud
𝑛 (7)
The energy consumed by the IoT Device for transmitting the task to 
an MEC server is 𝐸tx
𝑛,𝑚 =𝑃𝑛
𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑛𝑚
. The energy consumed by the MEC server 
for computation is 𝐸comp
𝑛,𝑚 =𝑘comp
𝑚 (𝑓𝑛𝑚)2𝐶𝑛, where 𝑘comp
𝑚  is the effective 
switched capacitance coefficient of the server’s CPU architecture [6]. 
The total energy for MEC offloading is: 
𝐸MEC
𝑛𝑚 =𝑃𝑛
𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑛𝑚
+𝑘comp
𝑚 (𝑓𝑛𝑚)2𝐶𝑛 (8)
For cloud offloading, the energy includes IoT Device transmission, MEC 
transmission, and cloud computation: 
𝐸Cloud
𝑛 =𝑃𝑛
𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑛𝑚
+𝑃𝑐
𝑚
𝐷𝑛
𝑟𝑐
𝑚
+𝑘comp
𝑐 (𝑓𝑛,𝑀+1)2𝐶𝑛 (9)
The total offloading energy for task 𝑛, 𝐸Off
𝑛 , is: 
𝐸Off
𝑛 (𝐗, 𝐅) =
𝑀∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑛,𝑚𝐸MEC
𝑛𝑚 +𝑥𝑛,𝑀+1𝐸Cloud
𝑛 (10)
3.4. Blockchain system model
An Enhanced Delegated Proof of Stake (EDPoS) consensus mecha-
nism is adopted, inspired by [52], which is more energy-efficient and 
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
5 

--- Page 6 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
scalable for IoT environments than Proof of Work. As illustrated in 
Fig.  2, the workflow of the consensus mechanism can be divided into 
four major steps. First, the network performs a reputation-based vot-
ing operation. Second, using the reputation information, MEC servers 
with high reputations are selected as candidates for the role of block 
manager (miner). Third, after the selected candidate creates the block, 
the verifier nodes verify it. Finally, the created block is added to the 
blockchain.
The considered blockchain layer will enhance the trustworthy col-
laboration between MEC/cloud nodes by offering a tamper-resistant 
way to record the task result, a decentralized verification system, and 
an auditable history of the services rendered. Some of the threats 
addressed in this work are unreliable or selfish nodes, inconsistent 
verifier verification behavior, verifier-node failures, and tampering or 
disputes of task-result records since execution. The blockchain ledger 
helps overcome these challenges by maintaining the metadata and ver-
ification data for the tasks in an append-only manner, while using the 
reputation-aware EDPoS mechanism to lower the possibility of selecting 
low-reputation nodes to perform the critical consensus tasks. Hence, the 
security analysis does not aim at giving a comprehensive cryptographic 
proof of security against all potential attacks by an adversary, but rather 
on the data integrity, the auditability, the reliability of the consensus, 
and the trusted selection of the roles.
In this model, MEC servers and the cloud server are candidates 
to become block managers or verifiers. The selection is based on a 
reputation score, which is modeled separately from the instantaneous 
computational capacity of each node. In this work, the reputation 
score reflects trust-related factors such as network reliability, uptime, 
successful verification history, failure behavior, and historical service 
consistency, whereas computational capability is captured indepen-
dently through the CPU-frequency allocation variables and capacity 
constraints. The total reputation of the selected block manager and 
verifiers is a key objective to maximize: 
𝑊 (𝐗) =
𝑀+1∑
𝑖=1
𝑤𝑖(𝑥𝑁+1,𝑖 +𝑥𝑁+2,𝑖) (11)
where 𝑤𝑖 is the reputation score of node 𝑖. Since 𝑥𝑁+1,𝑖 and 𝑥𝑁+2,𝑖
are binary decision variables, this objective function strictly aggregates 
the total reputation of the chosen nodes. The exact number of block 
managers and verifiers is explicitly controlled by constraints 𝐶3 and 𝐶4
in Section 4.
The total latency of the blockchain process, 𝑇𝐵, for creating and 
validating one block is the sum of latencies from several stages: block 
generation (𝑇 generate), transmission to verifiers (𝑇 transmit), parallel veri-
fication (𝑇 verify), broadcasting of verification results (𝑇 broadcasting), and 
feedback to the block manager (𝑇 feedback). 
𝑇𝐵(𝐗, 𝐅) = 𝑇 gen +𝑇 tx +𝑇 ver +𝑇 bc +𝑇 f b, (12)
where 
𝑇 gen =
𝑀+1∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑁+1,𝑚
𝑛Tr𝐷Tr𝐶Tr
𝑓𝑁+1,𝑚
, (13)
𝑇 tx = 𝑛Tr𝐷Tr
𝑟𝑑 , (14)
𝑇 ver = max
𝑣∶𝑥𝑁+2,𝑣=1
{ 𝐶ver
𝑓𝑁+2,𝑣
}
, (15)
𝑇 bc = 𝜓𝑛 Tr𝐷Tr
𝑟𝑑
𝑀+1∑
𝑣=1
𝑥𝑁+2,𝑣, (16)
and 
𝑇 f b = 𝑂
𝑟𝑢. (17)
This decomposition explicitly separates block generation, block trans-
mission, parallel verification, broadcasting, and feedback propagation.
where 𝑛𝑇𝑟 is the number of transactions per block, 𝐷𝑇𝑟 is the 
average transaction size, 𝐶𝑇𝑟 is the processing cycles per bit for block 
generation, 𝐶ver is the total cycles for verification, 𝑂 is the feedback 
message size, and 𝑟𝑑,𝑟𝑢 are average downlink/uplink rates within the 
edge network.
Similarly, the total energy consumed by the blockchain process, 𝐸𝐵, 
is the sum of energy consumed in each stage: 
𝐸𝐵(𝐗, 𝐅) = 𝐸gen +𝐸tx +𝐸ver +𝐸bc +𝐸f b, (18)
where 
𝐸gen =
𝑀+1∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑁+1,𝑚𝑘comp
𝑚 𝑓 2
𝑁+1,𝑚𝑛Tr𝐷Tr𝐶Tr, (19)
𝐸tx = 𝑛Tr𝐷Tr
𝑟𝑑
𝑀+1∑
𝑚=1
𝑝𝑚𝑥𝑁+1,𝑚, (20)
𝐸ver =
𝑀+1∑
𝑣=1
𝑥𝑁+2,𝑣𝑘comp
𝑣 𝑓 2
𝑁+2,𝑣𝐶ver, (21)
𝐸bc = 𝜓𝑛 Tr𝐷Tr
𝑟𝑑
𝑀+1∑
𝑣=1
𝑝𝑣𝑥𝑁+2,𝑣, (22)
and 
𝐸f b = 𝑂
𝑟𝑢
𝑀+1∑
𝑣=1
𝑝𝑣𝑥𝑁+2,𝑣. (23)
Where, 𝐸gen represents the energy consumed for block genera-
tion, 𝐸tx is the energy consumed for transmission, 𝐸ver is the energy 
consumed for block verification, 𝐸bc is the energy consumed for dis-
seminating the verification results, and 𝐸f b is the energy consumed 
for sending the verification feedback. The coefficients 𝑘comp
𝑚  and 𝑘comp
𝑣
denote the computational energy factors of the block producer and 
verifier nodes, respectively. The parameters 𝑝𝑚 and 𝑝𝑣 indicate the 
transmit power of MEC server 𝑚 and of the 𝑣th verifier, respectively.
4. Problem formulation
To jointly analyze task offloading and blockchain processing under 
a synchronized decision horizon, the system is modeled in discrete 
time slots of duration 𝑆𝑇 . This slot-based representation is appropri-
ate because both the offloading of a task batch and the processing 
of a blockchain block consume shared communication and computa-
tional resources over a bounded operational interval. Under steady-
state pipelined operation, the effective latency per slot is determined 
by the slower of these two parallel processes. 
𝑇 Tot(𝐗, 𝐅) = max
(
max
𝑛∈
𝑇 Off
𝑛 (𝐗, 𝐅),𝑇 𝐵(𝐗, 𝐅)
)
(24)
This total latency, 𝑇 Tot, is used to determine the feasible time slot 
duration 𝑆𝑇 for the current workload batch and is the main objective 
to be minimized in Problem P1. Note that decreasing the duration of 
the time slots 𝑆𝑇 also reduces the overall worst-case system latency. 
The total system energy consumption per time slot is the sum of the 
offloading energy for all tasks and the blockchain processing energy. 
𝐸Tot(𝐗, 𝐅) =
∑
𝑛∈
𝐸Off
𝑛 (𝐗, 𝐅) +𝐸𝐵(𝐗, 𝐅) (25)
The primary goal is to find the optimal task allocation matrix 𝐗 and 
resource allocation matrix 𝐅 that solve the following multi-objective 
optimization problem (P1). 
P1: min
𝐗,𝐅
𝑆𝑇 (26a)
min
𝐗,𝐅
𝐸Tot(𝐗, 𝐅) (26b)
max
𝐗,𝐅
𝑊 (𝐗) (26c)
subject to:
𝐶1 ∶ 𝑥𝑛,𝑚 ∈ {0, 1}, ∀𝑛 ∈ {1, …,𝑁 + 2}, ∀𝑚 (26d)
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
6 

--- Page 7 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
𝐶2 ∶
𝑀+1∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑛,𝑚 = 1, ∀𝑛 ∈  (26e)
𝐶3 ∶
𝑀+1∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑁+1,𝑚 = 1 (26f)
𝐶4 ∶
𝑀+1∑
𝑚=1
𝑥𝑁+2,𝑚 =𝑉 (26g)
𝐶5 ∶
𝑁∑
𝑛=1
𝑥𝑛,𝑚𝑓𝑛,𝑚 +𝑥𝑁+1,𝑚𝑓𝑁+1,𝑚
+ 𝑥𝑁+2,𝑚𝑓𝑁+2,𝑚 ≤𝐹𝑚, ∀𝑚 = 1, …,𝑀 (26h)
𝐶6 ∶
𝑁∑
𝑛=1
𝑥𝑛,𝑀+1𝑓𝑛,𝑀+1 +𝑥𝑁+1,𝑀+1𝑓𝑁+1,𝑀+1
+ 𝑥𝑁+2,𝑀+1𝑓𝑁+2,𝑀+1 ≤𝐹𝑐 (26i)
𝐶7 ∶ 𝑇 Off
𝑛 (𝐗, 𝐅) ≤𝑙𝑛 −𝑠𝑏, ∀𝑛 ∈  (26j)
𝐶8 ∶ 𝑇𝐵(𝐗, 𝐅) ≤𝑆𝑇 (26k)
𝐶9 ∶ 𝑇 Off
𝑛 (𝐗, 𝐅) ≤𝑆𝑇 (26l)
𝐶10 ∶ 𝑛𝑇𝑟 = min
(
𝑛max
𝑇𝑟
, 𝑛Total
𝑇𝑟
)
(26m)
Constraint (26d) defines the decision variables as binary. (26e) 
ensures each task is offloaded to exactly one server. (26f) ensures 
exactly one block manager is selected. (26g) sets the number of verifiers 
to a constant 𝑉 . (26h) and (26i) represent the total computational 
capacity constraints for each MEC server and the cloud server, respec-
tively, ensuring that the allocated CPU frequencies do not exceed the 
available capacity. (26j) is the task deadline constraint. (26k) and (26l) 
ensure that blockchain and offloading latencies are within the time slot 
duration 𝑆𝑇 . (26m) specifies the permissible range for the number of 
transactions in each block.
For cases where a single solution is desired, a weighted-sum single-
objective problem is formulated by normalizing and combining the 
objectives into a unified cost function: 
min
𝐗,𝐅
Cost =𝛼 𝐸Tot
𝐸norm
+𝛽 𝑆𝑇
𝑆𝑇 _norm
− (1 −𝛼 −𝛽) 𝑊
𝑊norm
(27)
where 𝛼,𝛽 ∈ [0, 1], 𝛼 +𝛽 ≤ 1 are weighting factors which illustrate 
the relative importance of each objective. The normalization constants 
𝐸norm , 𝑆𝑇 _norm , and 𝑊norm are static scaling factors for each simulation 
scenario, and are calculated based on maximum or typical values of the 
energy feasible range, the latency feasible range, and the reputation 
range, respectively. These constants are constants and do not change 
during optimization. They are only used to allow the objectives to 
be compared in comparable numbers, and not because they have 
relationships with each other in physical units.
5. Proposed solution
The formulated optimization problem P1 is an MINLP problem. 
The combination of binary decision variables (for allocation) and con-
tinuous variables (for resource distribution), along with non-linear 
objective functions and constraints, makes this problem NP-hard [53]. 
Exact solvers are computationally intractable for even moderately sized 
networks. Therefore, two solution methodologies based on powerful 
meta-heuristic evolutionary algorithms are proposed (Fig.  3).
5.1. NSGA-II for multi-objective optimization
The NSGA II is a well-established elitist multi-objective evolutionary 
algorithm used to find a set of non-dominated solutions, known as 
the Pareto front [54]. It is particularly suitable for this problem, as it 
can identify the optimal trade-offs among latency, energy consumption, 
and reputation. The implementation is detailed in Algorithm 1 and 
comprises the following core components.
1. Chromosome Representation: Each chromosome represents a 
potential solution, encoding the task allocation matrix 𝐗 and 
the resource allocation matrix 𝐅. These matrices define which 
server handles each task, the designation of the block manager 
and verifiers, and the allocated CPU frequencies.
2. Initialization: An initial population of size 𝑃 is generated ran-
domly, ensuring that each individual solution complies with all 
system constraints (e.g., C1–C5).
3. Fitness Evaluation: For each individual, the three objective 
functions latency (𝑆𝑇 ), total energy (𝐸Tot), and reputation (𝑊 ) 
are calculated.
4. Non-Dominated Sorting: The population is partitioned into 
non-domination levels (fronts). The first front (𝐹1) contains solu-
tions that are not dominated by any other solution. The second 
front (𝐹2) contains solutions dominated only by those in 𝐹1, and 
so on.
5. Crowding Distance: To maintain diversity and ensure a well-
distributed Pareto front, a crowding distance is calculated for 
each solution within a front. This metric estimates the density 
of neighboring solutions, and individuals in less crowded regions 
are prioritized.
6. Selection: A binary tournament selection operator is employed, 
which prioritizes solutions based on their non-domination rank. 
If two solutions have the same rank, the one with the larger 
crowding distance is selected.
7. Genetic Operators: Offspring are generated by applying
crossover and mutation:
• Crossover: Uniform crossover is applied to the binary al-
location matrix 𝐗, and a simulated binary crossover (SBX) 
is used for the continuous resource allocation values in 𝐅.
• Mutation: Random alterations are introduced into off-
spring. For 𝐗, this involves flipping bits, while for 𝐅, 
polynomial mutation adjusts the CPU frequency values.
8. Elitism: The parent and offspring populations are combined. The 
best 𝑃 individuals are selected for the next generation based 
on their non-domination rank and crowding distance, which 
guarantees that the best-found solutions are preserved across 
generations.
9. Termination: The algorithm runs for a fixed number of gener-
ations (𝐺). The final output is the first Pareto front (𝐹1), which 
contains the set of optimal trade-off solutions.
5.2. Genetic algorithm for single-objective optimization
For the single-objective formulation, which minimizes the weighted-
sum cost function in (27), a standard GA is employed. This formulation 
allows the network operator to explicitly encode the relative priorities 
of latency, energy consumption, and reputation through the weighting 
coefficients 𝛼 and 𝛽. The overall GA procedure is summarized in Algo-
rithm 2. The proposed GA adopts the same chromosome representation, 
population initialization strategy, and genetic operators (i.e., crossover 
and mutation) as the NSGA-II framework.
In contrast to NSGA-II, however, the fitness evaluation and parent-
selection mechanisms are simplified due to the scalar nature of the 
objective function. Specifically, the fitness of each individual is com-
puted as the inverse of its cost value defined in (27). Parent selection is 
then carried out using standard selection schemes, such as tournament 
selection or roulette-wheel selection, in which candidate solutions are 
chosen directly according to this scalar fitness value. Elitism is ad-
ditionally incorporated to retain the best solution identified in each 
generation. After 𝐺 generations, the algorithm outputs the best fea-
sible solution that minimizes the weighted-sum cost function for the 
specified parameter setting.
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
7 

--- Page 8 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Fig. 3.  NSGA-II and GA Flowchart for Task Offloading in BIoT Network Optimization.
5.3. Computational complexity analysis
Let 𝑃 denote the population size, 𝐺 the number of generations, 𝑄
the number of objectives, and 
𝐷 = (𝑁 + 2)(𝑀 + 1) (28)
the main chromosome dimension associated with the assignment and 
resource-allocation matrices. For NSGA-II, the non-dominated sorting 
requires 𝑂(𝑄𝑃 2) operations per generation and crowding-distance cal-
culation requires 𝑂(𝑄𝑃 log𝑃 ). The crossover, mutation, repair, and 
objective-evaluation operations require 𝑂(𝑃𝐷 +𝑃𝐶 eval) for a generation, 
where 𝐶eval is the cost of computing latency, energy, reputation, and 
constraint violations for one individual. So the total complexity of the 
NSGA-II based method is: 
𝑂 (𝐺 (𝑄𝑃 2 +𝑄𝑃 log𝑃 +𝑃𝐷 +𝑃𝐶 eval
)). (29)
For the GA-based scalarized formulation, selection and elitist re-
placement require at most 𝑂(𝑃 log𝑃 ) per generation, while crossover, 
mutation, repair, and cost evaluation require 𝑂(𝑃𝐷 +𝑃𝐶 eval). Hence, 
the total complexity of the GA-based method is 
𝑂 (𝐺 (𝑃 log𝑃 +𝑃𝐷 +𝑃𝐶 eval
)). (30)
These expressions show that NSGA-II is more computationally expen-
sive due to non-dominated sorting, whereas GA is more suitable when 
a single scalarized operating point is sufficient.
5.4. Implementation considerations
The proposed framework is intended for periodic network-level 
resource orchestration rather than per-packet scheduling. For practical 
applications, the NSGA-II component can be run in an offline manner 
or on longer intervals to derive Pareto-optimal operating points under 
typical network conditions. At the online stage, the network admin-
istrator can choose from among candidate solutions based on current 
needs regarding latency, energy consumption, and trust metrics. The 
formulation based on GA scalarization can also be considered when the 
user sets certain preference weights.
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
8 

--- Page 9 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Algorithm 1: NSGA-II for Multi-Objective Task Offloading in 
BIoT Network
Input :  Network parameters; Algorithm parameters 
(Population size 𝑃 , Generations 𝐺, Crossover 
probability 𝑝𝑐 , Mutation probability 𝑝𝑚).
Output: Pareto-optimal front 𝐹1 minimizing 𝑆𝑇 , 𝐸Tot and 
maximizing 𝑊 .
1 Step 1: Initialization;
2 Generate an initial population of size 𝑃 with random, valid 
task and resource allocations;
3 Evaluate objectives (𝑆𝑇,𝐸 Tot,𝑊 ) for each individual;
4 for 𝑔 ← 1 to 𝐺 do
5 Step 2: Non-Dominated Sorting;
6 Classify the population into Pareto fronts 𝐹1,𝐹 2, … ;
7 Step 3: Crowding Distance Calculation;
8 Compute the crowding distance for every individual in 
each front;
9 Step 4: Selection;
10 Create a mating pool using crowded tournament 
selection based on rank and crowding distance;
11 Step 5: Genetic Operators;
12 Apply crossover and mutation operators to the mating 
pool to generate an offspring population;
13 Step 6: Population Update;
14 Combine parent and offspring populations;
15 Select the best 𝑃 individuals for the next generation 
using non-dominated sorting and crowding distance 
(elitism);
16 Step 7: Output;
17 Return the final non-dominated front 𝐹1;
Algorithm 2: Genetic Algorithm for Single-Objective Task 
Offloading
Input :  Network parameters; Algorithm parameters 
(Population size 𝑃 , Generations 𝐺, Crossover 
probability 𝑝𝑐 , Mutation probability 𝑝𝑚); Weights 
𝛼,𝛽 .
Output: The solution (𝑋,𝐹 ) that minimizes the Cost
function.
1 Step 1: Initialization;
2 Generate an initial population of size 𝑃 with random, valid 
allocations;
3 Evaluate the Cost for each individual;
4 for 𝑔 ← 1 to 𝐺 do
5 Step 2: Selection;
6 Select parents from the population based on their fitness 
(inverse of Cost);
7 Step 3: Genetic Operators;
8 Apply crossover and mutation to the selected parents to 
produce an offspring population;
9 Step 4: Population Update;
10 Combine parent and offspring populations;
11 Retain the top 𝑃 individuals with the best fitness for the 
next generation (elitism);
12 Step 5: Output;
13 Return the best solution found that minimizes Cost;
The main implementation overheads include collecting task meta-
data, estimating channel states, updating node reputation scores, and 
exchanging blockchain coordination messages. Overheads associated 
with the optimization are practical in terms of MEC-enabled IoT net-
works, as the optimization takes place at MEC or cloud orchestration 
Table 3
Simulation Parameters.
 Parameter Value  
 Channel bandwidth (𝐵𝑛𝑚, 𝐵𝑐
𝑚) 20 MHz  
 IoT Device transmit power (𝑃𝑛) 0.5 W  
 MEC server transmit power (𝑃𝑚) 2 W  
 Noise power density (𝜔0) 10−17 W/Hz  
 Energy coefficient (𝑘comp
𝑚 , 𝑘comp
𝑐 ) 10−26  
 Task data size (𝐷𝑛) Uniform in [1, 5] Mb  
 Task workload (𝐶𝑛) Uniform in [0.5, 2] Gcycles 
 Transaction size (𝐷Tr ) 2 Kb  
 Block size 1 Mb  
 Verification cycles (𝐶ver) 107 cycles  
 Number of verifiers (𝑉 ) 6  
 Population size (𝑃 ) 100  
 Number of generations (𝐺) 500  
 Crossover/mutation probability 0.9/0.1  
nodes, but not on IoT devices themselves. However, in highly dynamic 
conditions, care must be taken that the execution time is lower than 
the length of a control slot.
6. Simulation results and analysis
Extensive simulations were conducted using Python to evaluate the 
performance of the proposed framework. The simulation parameters, 
chosen based on typical values from related literature [6,27,47], are 
summarized in Table  3. These values are also suitable for the consid-
ered blockchain-enabled IoT-MEC setting because they reflect realistic 
communication, computation, and verification scales. The simulation 
parameters are selected based on existing standard values for MEC and 
IoT offloading literature. Particularly, the effective switched capaci-
tance is assumed to be 10−26. This is one of the values used in the 
modeling of the CPU frequency-based energy consumption of the MEC 
system. The values of task data size, workload, wireless bandwidth, 
and power consumed in transmitting these tasks have been determined 
based on the typical scenario of IoT computation offloading systems. 
The values of the blockchain system are chosen accordingly.
A network with 𝑀 = 10  MEC servers and one cloud server is 
considered. The number of IoT tasks 𝑁 is varied from 10 to 40 to 
simulate different network loads. For heterogeneous resource scenarios, 
a reputation vector of 𝑊 = [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 1] and a correspond-
ing processing capacity vector of 𝐹𝑚 = [0.4, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 20]
GHz are assumed.
The experimental evaluation is organized to progressively examine 
different aspects of the proposed framework. First, the Pareto-front 
results show the intrinsic trade-off between latency and energy across 
various network loads and processing capacities. Second, the single 
objective analysis examines the impact of the preference weights on 
the selected operating point. Third, the reputation and computational-
capacity analyses make the effects of the blockchain-role selection and 
available processing resources clear. Fourth, the comparative baseline 
evaluation shows the overall performance gain of the proposed joint 
optimization framework. Finally, the contribution of each component, 
their robustness under different conditions, their reliability of con-
sensus, and the practical implementation overhead are analyzed by 
the ablation, sensitivity, dynamic-channel, verifier-failure, and runtime 
analysis.
Fig.  4 presents the Pareto optimal fronts obtained by the multi-
objective optimization algorithm, which demonstrates the tradeoff be-
tween total system latency and energy consumption. The analysis as-
sumes three network load cases, as represented by the number of user 
devices (𝑁 ∈ {10, 20, 40}), and four cases of fixed processing capacities 
for the MEC servers (𝐹𝑚 ∈ {1 , 5} GHz). Each point on the curve 
represents the set of non-dominated solutions, meaning that improving 
one objective results in the degradation of the other objective. The 
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
9 

--- Page 10 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Fig. 4. Pareto fronts for latency vs. energy with varying task numbers (𝑁) and maximum MEC processing frequencies (𝐹max). (a) 𝐹max = 1 GHz, (b) 𝐹max = 5 GHz.
analysis of the obtained fronts provides the following key insights on 
the system’s performance:
1. Impact of Network Load (N): For any fixed processing fre-
quency, increasing the number of tasks from 𝑁 = 10 to 𝑁 = 40 causes 
the Pareto front to shift upwards and to the right. This indicates that 
a higher network load results in a degradation of achievable perfor-
mance. At a constant latency, the total energy consumption increases 
with 𝑁, as more tasks require offloading and processing. Concurrently, 
for a fixed energy budget, the minimum achievable latency increases 
with 𝑁 due to greater resource contention.
2. Impact of Processing Frequency (𝐹𝑚): A significant change in 
the performance envelope is observed as the server frequency increases 
from 1 GHz (Fig.  4a) to 5 GHz (Fig.  4b).
• Latency Reduction: The minimum latency that is attainable 
reduces considerably. At 𝐹𝑚 = 1 GHz, the minimum latency that 
is attainable is about 1 s. On the other hand, for an Fm of 5 GHz, 
it is clear that latencies that are less than 0.5 s are attainable. 
This demonstrates the direct performance benefit that arises from 
more powerful computing resources.
• Energy Cost: This increase in speed comes at the cost of energy 
consumption. At 𝐹𝑚 = 1  GHz, the energy consumption that is 
attainable is about 40 Joules. On the other hand, at 𝐹𝑚 = 5 GHz, 
the energy consumption that is attainable is between 500 and 550 
Joules. This highlights a critical trade-off. High-frequency servers 
are faster, but they are significantly less energy-efficient when 
performing the same tasks.
From the results presented, it is evident that an increase in the 
available processing frequency 𝐹max from 1 GHz to 5 GHz causes a 
significant shift downward and to the left of the Pareto front, indicating 
that lower latency and energy values are simultaneously achievable. 
For instance, with 𝑁 = 40  tasks, the minimum achievable latency 
drops from over 2 s at 1 GHz to under 0.5 s at 5 GHz. However, this 
improvement is associated with a significant increase in possible energy 
consumption. For any given frequency, an increase in the number of 
tasks 𝑁 shifts the Pareto front to the right and upward, as a higher 
network load demands more resources and energy.
6.1. Single-objective performance analysis
Fig.  5 demonstrates the effect of the weighting factor 𝛼 on the 
optimal latency and energy values achieved by the single-objective 
genetic algorithm. In this context, 𝛽 = 1 −𝛼, and exclude the reputation 
component to focus on the traditional energy-latency trade-off.
As 𝛼 increases, greater emphasis is placed on energy minimiza-
tion. Consequently, the GA chooses solutions with reduced energy 
consumption, which typically entails assigning lower CPU frequencies 
and sometimes offloading to more remote yet energy-efficient servers, 
resulting in increased delay (Fig.  5(a)). Conversely, when 𝛼 approaches 
0, the emphasis transitions to minimizing delay, leading to assertive 
resource allocation and consequently increased energy consumption 
(Fig.  5(b)).
This trade-off is increasingly evident in systems with increased 
resource availability (higher 𝐹max). At 𝐹max = 15 GHz, changing 𝛼 from 
0.1 to 0.9 results in a reduction of energy consumption exceeding 60%, 
illustrating that the capacity for energy savings has been substantially 
improved in high-performance systems. These results confirm that the 
weighting factor 𝛼 provides an effective and flexible mechanism for 
tuning the GA behavior according to application-specific QoS priorities, 
energy-latency requirements, and available system resource conditions.
6.2. Impact of blockchain node reputation (W)
The selection of reputable nodes to perform roles such as block 
manager and verifier is critical for security and performance. As defined 
in Section 3.4, the total reputation 𝑊  is the aggregate of the individual 
reputation scores (𝑤𝑖) of the selected nodes. In the heterogeneous 
simulation setup, some high-reputation nodes also have higher pro-
cessing capacities; therefore, the discussion distinguishes the effect of 
computational capacity on latency from the effect of reputation on 
trustworthy blockchain-role selection. Fig.  6 illustrates the Pareto fronts 
for two scenarios: one in which low-reputation nodes are selected (𝑊 =
22, total 5.1 GHz processing power for blockchain roles), and another 
in which high-reputation nodes are selected (𝑊 = 62 , allocating 
27 GHz). When high-reputation nodes are selected for blockchain tasks, 
the system achieves significantly lower latencies. This is because these 
powerful nodes can generate and verify blocks much faster, reducing 
the 𝑇𝐵 component of the total latency. This suggests that a well-
designed reputation system can directly improve system performance 
by intelligently allocating critical roles in the blockchain to the most 
capable nodes. It should be noted that reputation and computational 
capacity are conceptually different in the proposed formulation. Com-
putational capacity directly affects block-generation and verification 
latency through the allocated CPU-frequency variables, while repu-
tation affects the trustworthiness and reliability of blockchain role 
selection. Therefore, the reputation objective should not be interpreted 
as merely selecting high-computing-capacity nodes; rather, it guides the 
selection of more trustworthy consensus participants under the resource 
constraints of the system.
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
10 

--- Page 11 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Fig. 5. Impact of the energy weight parameter 𝛼 on (a) total system latency and (b) total system energy for different maximum processing frequencies.
Fig. 6. Impact of total reputation (𝑊 ) of blockchain nodes on the latency-energy Pareto front for 𝑁 = 5, 20.
6.3. Impact of computational capacity and network load
To further analyze the system’s behavior, Fig.  7 illustrates the 
minimum achievable latency as a function of the total computational 
capabilities (𝐹𝑚) for varying network loads (𝑁). From the results, it is 
evident that as computational capabilities increase, latency decreases. 
However, the rate of reduction is greater at lower frequency levels, 
indicating a diminishing rate of return as computational capabilities 
increase. At very high frequency levels, communication delay is a 
significant bottleneck. For a given level of computational capabili-
ties, higher values of 𝑁 result in higher latency, requiring adequate 
computational resources to handle large numbers of tasks.
6.4. Comparative analysis and convergence
The convergence behavior of the genetic algorithm is illustrated 
in Fig.  8 for a given scenario, where 𝑁 = 10 , 𝐹𝑚 = 2  GHz, 𝛼 =
0.1. The cost function value is shown as a function of the number 
of iterations. Initially, the cost function value is high. However, as 
the algorithm iterates, it is observed that better configurations are 
found. Consequently, the cost function decreases significantly, and the 
cost function value is reduced before converging towards an optimal 
value. This trajectory verifies that the algorithm effectively navigates 
the solution space and converges on an improved solution.
6.5. Comparative baseline evaluation
The proposed framework is compared with five representative
benchmark methods: Random Allocation, Greedy-Latency, Greedy-
Fig. 7. Impact of maximum MEC computational capacity (𝐹max) on minimum 
achievable latency for different network loads (𝑁).
Energy, Reputation-Only Selection, and PSO-based optimization. Ran-
dom Allocation assigns tasks and blockchain roles randomly among fea-
sible nodes and is used as a lower-bound benchmark. Greedy-Latency 
assigns each task to the node that provides the lowest immediate 
execution latency, whereas Greedy-Energy assigns each task to the node 
that provides the lowest immediate energy consumption. Reputation-
Only Selection assigns blockchain management roles mainly according 
to node reputation, while task offloading and CPU-frequency allocation 
are optimized separately. PSO-based optimization is included as a 
representative meta-heuristic benchmark because PSO has been widely 
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
11 

--- Page 12 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Fig. 8. Convergence of the GA cost function (𝑁 = 10,𝐹𝑚 = 2 GHz, 𝛼 = 0.1).
Fig. 9. Baseline comparison in terms of total system latency under different 
numbers of IoT tasks.
Fig. 10. Baseline comparison in terms of total energy consumption under 
different numbers of IoT tasks.
used for computation offloading and resource-allocation problems in 
MEC systems [32]. All benchmark methods are evaluated under the 
same network, workload, and blockchain settings.
Fig.  9 presents the comparison between the latency achieved by the 
proposed framework and Random Allocation, Greedy-Latency, Greedy-
Energy, Reputation-Only Selection, and PSO-based optimization when 
the number of IoT tasks is increased. The latency experienced by all 
approaches grows as 𝑁 increases since a greater number of tasks 
implies higher levels of competition over available communication 
and computing resources. The highest value of latency is obtained 
by Random Allocation due to the lack of information about channel 
conditions, the computing capability of the server nodes, and the 
compatibility of selected blockchain roles. Greedy-Latency offers good 
latency values for light workloads, but as the value of 𝑁 increases, 
its performance deteriorates due to the local nature of the decision 
making process without joint consideration of overhead and resource 
availability. On the other hand, Reputation-Only Selection enhances 
blockchain role selection without optimizing task offloading and CPU 
frequencies. PSO-based optimization offers better results compared 
to random and greedy techniques but does not attain the balanced 
latency-energy-reputation ratio of the proposed approach.
Fig.  10 presents the total energy consumed by different schemes 
according to the increase of task workload. As 𝑁 increases, energy 
consumption is increasing due to more tasks needing to transmit and 
compute their results. Latency-oriented greedy scheme has higher en-
ergy consumption than the other schemes because the algorithm prefers 
to have tasks run at high frequencies to decrease latency. On the other 
hand, the energy-oriented greedy scheme results in reduced energy 
consumption; however, it results in increased latency, as depicted in 
Fig.  9. This confirms that the proposed joint optimization model can 
achieve a better latency-energy trade-off than single-objective or locally 
greedy strategies.
6.6. Coordination overhead metrics
To quantify the additional coordination cost introduced by the pro-
posed framework, we define the control-message overhead per decision 
slot as 
𝑂ctrl =𝑁𝑂 task + (𝑀 + 1)𝑂rep +𝑉𝑂 vote +𝑂f b, (31)
where 𝑂task denotes the metadata size required for each task request, 
𝑂rep is the reputation-update message size per blockchain node, 𝑂vote
denotes the voting/verification coordination message size per verifier, 
and 𝑂f b is the feedback message size. We also report the algorithm 
execution time as a computational overhead metric: 
𝑇alg =𝑡end −𝑡start. (32)
A solution is considered suitable for online orchestration if 𝑇alg ≤𝑇ctrl , 
where 𝑇ctrl is the control interval.
Fig.  11 presents the ablation study of the proposed framework. The 
full model is compared with several reduced variants, including the 
model without the reputation objective, without explicit blockchain-
overhead modeling, with separate optimization of offloading and
blockchain-role assignment, with random verifier selection, and with-
out the repair mechanism. Removing the reputation objective decreases 
the trustworthiness of selected blockchain management nodes. Ignoring 
blockchain overhead produces optimistic latency and energy values 
but does not reflect the actual cost of block generation, verifica-
tion, broadcasting, and feedback. Separate optimization also degrades 
performance because task offloading and blockchain-role assignment 
compete for the same computational and communication resources. 
The random-verifier variant reduces the quality of consensus-role se-
lection, while removing the repair mechanism increases infeasible or 
inefficient allocations. These results confirm that the performance im-
provement of the proposed framework comes from the joint integration 
of offloading, resource allocation, blockchain-overhead modeling, and 
reputation-aware role selection.
6.7. Sensitivity analysis
Fig.  12 illustrates the sensitivity of the scalarized objective function 
with respect to different combinations of energy weight 𝛼 and latency 
weight 𝛽. The rest of the weight, 1 −𝛼 −𝛽, is assigned to the reputation 
objective. We exclude infeasible combinations with 𝛼 + 𝛽 > 1. The 
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
12 

--- Page 13 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
Fig. 11. Ablation study showing the impact of key components on normalized 
latency, energy consumption, and trustworthiness.
Fig. 12. Sensitivity of the normalized scalarized cost to different combinations 
of the energy weight 𝛼 and latency weight 𝛽. Invalid combinations with 
𝛼 +𝛽 >1 are excluded.
results show that the operating point is sensitive to the choice of 
preference weights. As 𝛼 increases, the energy saving becomes more 
important to the optimizer, which usually leads to the reduction of 
energy consumption but can increase the latency. When 𝛽 increases, the 
optimizer cares more about reducing latency and tends to allocate more 
computational resources, which may increase energy consumption. The 
analysis shows that the proposed weighted-sum formulation provides a 
flexible mechanism to select application-specific operating points.
6.8. Dynamic channel and node-failure evaluation
Fig.  13 evaluates the robustness of the proposed framework under 
different channel conditions. The average SNR is varied to emulate 
poor, moderate, and favorable wireless environments. For all methods, 
latency decreases as SNR increases because a higher SNR improves the 
uplink transmission rate and reduces task-uploading delay. Under poor 
channel conditions, the random and greedy strategies experience larger 
latency degradation because they do not jointly adapt task assignment, 
computation allocation, and blockchain-role selection. The proposed 
framework maintains lower latency across different SNR levels by 
selecting more suitable computing nodes and allocating resources while 
accounting for both communication and blockchain-processing costs.
As illustrated in Fig.  14, it is shown that the consensus-failure 
probability increases with the increase in the verifier-node failure 
probability (𝑝𝑓 ). With the increase in the probability of failure of 
Fig. 13. Robustness evaluation under dynamic channel conditions: total sys-
tem latency versus average SNR.
Fig. 14. Consensus-failure probability under different verifier-node failure 
probabilities.
Fig. 15. Algorithm execution time under different numbers of IoT tasks.
the nodes, the likelihood of having insufficient numbers of verifier 
nodes increases, thereby increasing the probability of consensus failure. 
The random verification approach demonstrates poor resilience due 
to the potential selection of nodes with low reliability and capacity. 
Reputation-based alone performs better due to the preference of select-
ing high-reputation nodes without taking into account task offloading 
and resource allocation.
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
13 

--- Page 14 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
6.9. Computational and communication overhead
Fig.  15 reports the algorithm execution time as the number of 
IoT tasks increases. The runtime of all evolutionary methods increases 
with 𝑁 because the chromosome dimension and objective-evaluation 
cost grow with the number of task-assignment and resource-allocation 
variables. NSGA-II requires higher execution time than the scalar GA 
because non-dominated sorting and crowding-distance calculation in-
troduce additional computational cost. However, NSGA-II provides a 
Pareto set of trade-off solutions, which is useful for offline or periodic 
network-level orchestration. The GA-based scalar formulation is com-
putationally lighter and is more suitable when the operator requires 
a single operating point. These results clarify the practical trade-off 
between solution diversity and computational overhead.
7. Summary and conclusions
This study examines the main problem associated with resource 
allocation in blockchain-based IoT networks. It suggests a system model 
with a comprehensive optimization framework achieves minimal la-
tency and energy consumption while maximizing network reputation. 
The model holistically captures the interplay between computational 
offloading via MEC and the operational overheads of blockchain, in-
cluding a detailed analysis of the consensus process costs.
From a holistic system optimization perspective, this work presents 
both an NSGA-II-based multi-objective and a GA-based single-objective 
approach. The NSGA-II algorithm is capable of identifying the Pareto-
optimal front, which can give network operators clear ideas about 
fundamental trade-offs related to latency and energy. It can further 
facilitate well-informed, flexible decisions by system operators with 
respect to application-specific requirements. The simulation results ver-
ify the effectiveness of the proposed framework. For performance and 
energy cost, a quantifiable trade-off was realized. More importantly, it 
can be observed that by utilizing a reputation system in assigning high-
capacity nodes to critical blockchain roles, system performance can be 
significantly enhanced. From these findings, it became evident that, for 
complex IoT systems, resource allocation policies should be balanced 
with an integrated perspective.
In the future, this framework can be extended by incorporating 
machine learning techniques to achieve real-time dynamic resource 
allocation. Another promising research direction is the integration of 
smart contracts that will automate the enforcement of allocation poli-
cies on the blockchain. Finally, specific large-scale IoT case studies, 
such as autonomous vehicle networks or smart city infrastructures, 
should be addressed through this framework in order to validate its 
performance and scalability in real-world scenarios.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Nasim Nezhadsistani: Writing – review & editing, Writing 
– original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, 
Investigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Naghmeh S. 
Moayedian: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project admin-
istration, Methodology, Conceptualization. Arash Bozorgchenani: 
Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Supervision, 
Methodology, Conceptualization. Burkhard Stiller: Writing – review 
& editing, Supervision, Project administration.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
No data was used for the research described in the article.
References
[1] J. Gubbi, R. Buyya, S. Marusic, M. Palaniswami, Internet of things (IoT): A vision, 
architectural elements, and future directions, Future Gener. Comput. Syst. (ISSN: 
0167-739X) 29 (7) (2013) 1645–1660.
[2] A. Al-Fuqaha, M. Guizani, M. Mohammadi, M. Aledhari, M. Ayyash, Internet 
of things: A survey on enabling technologies, protocols, and applications, IEEE 
Commun. Surv. Tutor. 17 (4) (2015) 2347–2376.
[3] M. Chen, S. Mao, Y. Liu, Big data: A survey, Mob. Netw. Appl. 19 (2) (2014) 
171–209.
[4] Y. Qiao, Y. Xue, Y. Zhai, D. Zhang, B. Chen, A.V. Vasilakos, M.S. Hossain, S. 
Mumtaz, A secure and efficient sharing scheme for medical IoT data based on 
consortium blockchain, IEEE Internet Things J. 12 (23) (2025) 51422–51437.
[5] Y. Mao, C. You, J. Zhang, K. Huang, K.B. Letaief, A survey on mobile edge 
computing: The communication perspective, IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 19 (4) 
(2017) 2322–2358.
[6] S. Tian, K. Xu, S. Xiang, X. Dai, Z. Xiao, L. Zeng, Task offloading and resource 
scheduling in mobile edge-cloud computing based on edge competition and task 
prediction, IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput. 18 (5) (2025) 3262–3275.
[7] P. Ranaweera, A.D. Jurcut, M. Liyanage, Survey on multi-access edge computing 
security and privacy, IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 23 (2) (2021) 1078–1124.
[8] A. Kumar, A. Pal, A survey on computation offloading and current trends, IEEE 
Access 13 (2025) 185318–185356.
[9] Q. He, Z. Xi, Z. Feng, Y. Teng, L. Ma, Y. Cai, K. Yu, Telemedicine monitoring 
system based on fog/edge computing: A survey, IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput. 18 
(1) (2025) 479–498.
[10] M. Mukherjee, L. Shu, D. Wang, Survey of fog computing: Fundamental, network 
applications, and research challenges, IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 20 (3) (2018) 
1826–1857.
[11] D. Sabella, K. Maloor, N. Smith, M. Vanderveen, A. Kourtis, Edge computing 
cybersecurity standards: Protecting infrastructure and applications, IEEE Access 
12 (2024) 185328–185335.
[12] M. Belotti, N. Božić, G. Pujolle, S. Secci, A vademecum on blockchain tech-
nologies: When, which, and how, IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 21 (4) (2019) 
3796–3838.
[13] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. Dai, X. Chen, H. Wang, An overview of blockchain tech-
nology: Architecture, consensus, and future trends, in: 2017 IEEE International 
Congress on Big Data (BigData Congress), 2017, pp. 557–564.
[14] H.N. Dai, Z. Zheng, Y. Zhang, Blockchain for internet of things: A survey, IEEE 
Internet Things J. 6 (5) (2019) 8076–8094.
[15] J. Singh, S. Rani, P. Kumar, Blockchain and smart contracts: Evolution, chal-
lenges, and future directions, ICKECS, in: 2024 International Conference on 
Knowledge Engineering and Communication Systems, vol. 1, 2024, pp. 1–5.
[16] A. Dorri, S.S. Kanhere, R. Jurdak, P. Gauravaram, Blockchain for IoT security and 
privacy: The case study of a smart home, in: 2017 IEEE International Conference 
on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops (PerCom Workshops), 
2017, pp. 618–623.
[17] A. Reyna, C. Martín, J. Chen, E. Soler, M. Díaz, On blockchain and its integration 
with IoT. Challenges and opportunities, Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 88 (2018) 
173–190.
[18] D.K.J.B. Saini, S. Kumar, A. Bhatt, R. Gupta, K. Joshi, D. Siddharth, 
Blockchain-based IoT applications, platforms, systems and framework, in: 2023 
14th International Conference on Computing Communication and Networking 
Technologies, ICCCNT, 2023, pp. 1–6.
[19] O. Novo, Blockchain meets IoT: An architecture for scalable access management 
in IoT, IEEE Internet Things J. 5 (2) (2018) 1184–1195.
[20] Y. Zuo, Exploring the synergy: AI enhancing blockchain, blockchain empowering 
AI, and their convergence across IoT applications and beyond, IEEE Internet 
Things J. 12 (6) (2025) 6171–6195.
[21] J. Zhang, X. Hu, Z. Ning, E.C.H. Ngai, L. Zhou, J. Wei, J. Cheng, B. Hu, Energy-
latency tradeoff for energy-aware offloading in mobile edge computing networks, 
IEEE Internet Things J. 5 (4) (2018) 2633–2645, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
JIOT.2017.2786343.
[22] L. Cui, C. Xu, S. Yang, J.Z. Huang, J. Li, X. Wang, Z. Ming, N. Lu, Joint 
optimization of energy consumption and latency in mobile edge computing 
for internet of things, IEEE Internet Things J. 6 (3) (2019) 4791–4803, http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2018.2869226.
[23] X. Xu, X. Zhang, H. Gao, Y. Xue, L.T. Qi, W. Dou, Become: Blockchain-enabled 
computation offloading for IoT in mobile edge computing, IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Inform. 16 (6) (2020) 4187–4195, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TII.2019.2936869.
[24] J. Feng, F.R. Yu, Q. Pei, X. Chu, J. Du, L. Zhu, Cooperative computation of-
floading and resource allocation for blockchain-enabled mobile-edge computing: 
A deep reinforcement learning approach, IEEE Internet Things J. 7 (7) (2020) 
6214–6228, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2019.2961707.
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
14 

--- Page 15 ---
N. Nezhadsistani et al.
[25] A. Bozorgchenani, F. Mashhadi, D. Tarchi, S. Salinas Monroy, Multi-objective 
computation sharing in energy and delay constrained mobile edge computing 
environments, IEEE Trans. Mob. Comput. 20 (10) (2021) 2992–3005, http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2020.2994232.
[26] P. Wang, K. Li, B. Xiao, K. Li, Multi-objective optimization for joint task 
offloading, power assignment, and resource allocation in mobile edge computing, 
IEEE Internet Things J. 9 (14) (2022) 11737–11748, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
JIOT.2021.3132080.
[27] D. C. Nguyen, P. N. Pathirana, M. Ding, A. Seneviratne, Secure computation 
offloading in blockchain based IoT networks with deep reinforcement learning, 
IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng. 8 (4) (2021) 3192–3208.
[28] Z.-Y. Chai, X. Liu, Y.-L. Li, A computation offloading algorithm based on multi-
objective evolutionary optimization in mobile edge computing, Eng. Appl. Artif. 
Intell. 121 (2023) 105966, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2023.105966.
[29] A. Bozorgchenani, S. Maghsudi, D. Tarchi, E. Hossain, Computation offloading in 
heterogeneous vehicular edge networks: On-line and off-policy bandit solutions, 
IEEE Trans. Mob. Comput. 21 (12) (2022) 4233–4248.
[30] T.X. Tran, D. Pompili, Joint task offloading and resource allocation for multi-
server mobile-edge computing networks, IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 68 (1) (2019) 
856–868.
[31] H.T. Ciptaningtyas, A.M. Shiddiqi, D. Purwitasari, A systematic literature review 
of genetic algorithm-based approaches for cloud task scheduling, in: 2023 14th 
International Conference on Information & Communication Technology and 
System, ICTS, 2023, pp. 319–324.
[32] D. Basu, V. Krishnakumar, U. Ghosh, R. Datta, DeepCare: Deep learning-
based smart healthcare framework using 5g assisted network slicing, in: 2022 
IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications 
Systems, ANTS, 2022, pp. 201–206.
[33] Z. Shi, Z. Zhang, M. Dai, Z. Xia, H. Wen, F. Huang, Deep reinforcement 
learning-based task offloading for multi-user distributed edge computing, in: 
2024 30th International Conference on Mechatronics and Machine Vision in 
Practice (M2VIP), 2024, pp. 1–6.
[34] H. Hu, D. Wu, F. Zhou, S. Jin, R.Q. Hu, Dynamic task offloading in MEC-
enabled IoT networks: A hybrid DDPG-d3qn approach, in: 2021 IEEE Global 
Communications Conference, GLOBECOM, 2021, pp. 1–6.
[35] B. Zhao, K. Peng, K. Zhang, H. Sun, SerFlow: A multi-stage service-enhanced 
mechanism for workflow applications in CPSs with end-edge-cloud collaboration, 
IEEE Internet Things J. (2025) http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2025.3577233.
[36] B. Hu, J. Du, J. Zhang, X. Chu, Computation offloading and resource allocation in 
mixed cloud/vehicular-fog computing systems, IEEE Trans. Mob. Comput. (2025) 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2025.3556315.
[37] B. Hu, W. Zhang, Y. Yin, J. Du, F.R. Yu, X. Chu, Soft actor-critic-based offloading 
and resource allocation optimisation for digital twin-aided vehicular networks, 
IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. (2026) http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TVT.2026.3656450.
[38] K. Peng, B. Zhao, M. Bilal, X. Xu, Reliability-aware computation offloading 
for delay-sensitive applications in MEC-enabled aerial computing, IEEE Trans. 
Green Commun. Netw. 6 (3) (2022) 1511–1519, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
TGCN.2022.3162584.
[39] Y. Cheng, J. Ma, Z. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Wu, C. Dong, R. Li, A privacy-preserving and 
reputation-based truth discovery framework in mobile crowdsensing, IEEE Trans. 
Dependable Secur. Comput. 20 (6) (2023) 5293–5311.
[40] C. Li, C. Liu, P. Liu, X. Li, W. Qiu, L. Lei, Y. Jin, Blockchain-based privacy-
preserving and accountable mobile edge outsourcing computing framework for 
the metaverse, IEEE Trans. Green Commun. Netw. 9 (2) (2025) 711–724.
[41] F. Tian, An agri-food supply chain traceability system for China based on rfid 
& blockchain technology, in: 2016 13th International Conference on Service 
Systems and Service Management, ICSSSM, 2016, pp. 1–6.
[42] Y. Liu, F.R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, V.C.M. Leung, Blockchain and machine learning 
for communications and networking systems, IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 22 (2) 
(2020) 1392–1431.
[43] Z. Xiong, Y. Zhang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, Z. Han, When mobile blockchain meets 
edge computing, IEEE Commun. Mag. 56 (8) (2018) 33–39.
[44] M.M. Salim, J.H. Park, Federated learning-based secure electronic health record 
sharing scheme in medical informatics, IEEE J. Biomed. Health Inform. 27 (2) 
(2023) 617–624.
[45] M. Li, F.R. Yu, P. Si, W. Wu, Y. Zhang, Resource optimization for delay-tolerant 
data in blockchain-enabled IoT with edge computing: A deep reinforcement 
learning approach, IEEE Internet Things J. 7 (10) (2020) 9399–9412.
[46] A. Lakhan, M.A. Mohammed, S. Kozlov, J.J. Rodrigues, Mobile-fog-cloud assisted 
deep reinforcement learning and blockchain-enable IoMT system for healthcare 
workflows, Trans. Emerg. Telecommun. Technol. 35 (4) (2024) e4363.
[47] J. Zhu, X. Wang, H. Huang, S. Cheng, M. Wu, A NSGA-II algorithm for task 
scheduling in UAV-enabled MEC system, IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 23 (7) 
(2022) 9414–9429.
[48] Z. Hu, B. Liu, A. Shen, J. Luo, Blockchain-based resource allocation mechanism 
for the internet of vehicles: Balancing efficiency and security, IEEE Trans. Netw. 
Serv. Manag. 21 (4) (2024) 3971–3987.
[49] F. Zhao, Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, Z. Liu, X. Chen, Dynamic offloading and resource 
scheduling for mobile-edge computing with energy harvesting devices, IEEE 
Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 18 (2) (2021) 2154–2165.
[50] X. Yang, X. Yang, X. Yi, I. Khalil, X. Zhou, D. He, X. Huang, S. Nepal, Blockchain-
based secure and lightweight authentication for internet of things, IEEE Internet 
Things J. 9 (5) (2022) 3321–3332.
[51] B. Mao, Y. Liu, Z. Wei, H. Guo, Y. Xun, J. Wang, J. Liu, N. Kato, A blockchain-
enabled cold start aggregation scheme for federated reinforcement learning-based 
task offloading in zero trust LEO satellite networks, IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun. 
43 (6) (2025) 2172–2182.
[52] D. Larimer, Delegated proof-of-stake (DPOS). Bitshare whitepaper (2014), 2014.
[53] P. Belotti, C. Kirches, S. Leyffer, J. Linderoth, J. Luedtke, A. Mahajan, 
Mixed-integer nonlinear optimization, Acta Numer. 22 (2013) 1–131.
[54] K. Deb, A. Pratap, S. Agarwal, T. Meyarivan, A fast and elitist multiobjective 
genetic algorithm: NSGA-II, IEEE Trans. Evol. Comput. 6 (2) (2002) 182–197.
Ad Hoc Networks 193 (2026) 104361 
15 
