--- Page 1 ---
Academic Editor: George Drosatos
Received: 9 September 2025
Revised: 1 October 2025
Accepted: 6 October 2025
Published: 9 October 2025
Citation: Liu, W.; Zhu, J.; Li, X.; Fei,
Y.; Wang, H.; Liu, S.; Zheng, X.; Ji, Y.
Resource Scheduling Algorithm for
Edge Computing Networks Based on
Multi-Objective Optimization. Appl.
Sci. 2025, 15, 10837. https://doi.org/
10.3390/app151910837
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
Article
Resource Scheduling Algorithm for Edge Computing Networks
Based on Multi-Objective Optimization
Wenrui Liu 1,2, Jiale Zhu 3
 , Xiangming Li 2,4,*, Yichao Fei 1, Hai Wang 1, Shangdong Liu 5
 , Xiaoyao Zheng 3
and Yimu Ji 5
1 China Tower Corporation Limited, Beijing 100195, China; liuwr@chinatowercom.cn (W.L.);
feiyc3@chinatowercom.cn (Y.F.)
2 School of Cyberspace Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China
3 School of Computer and Information, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241003, China; jlz@ahnu.edu.cn (J.Z.);
zxiaoyao@ahnu.edu.cn (X.Z.)
4 Aerospace and Informatics Domain, Beijing Institute of Technology, Zhuhai 519008, China
5 School of Computer Science, Nanjing University of Posts & Telecommunications, Nanjing 210023, China;
lsd@njupt.edu.cn (S.L.); jiym@njupt.edu.cn (Y.J.)
* Correspondence: xmli@bit.edu.cn
Abstract
Edge computing networks represent an emerging technological paradigm that enhances
real-time responsiveness for mobile devices by reallocating computational resources from
central servers to the network’s edge. This shift enables more efficient computing services
for mobile devices. However, deploying computing services on inappropriate edge nodes
can result in imbalanced resource utilization within edge computing networks, ultimately
compromising service efficiency. Consequently, effectively leveraging the resources of
edge computing devices while minimizing the energy consumption of terminal devices
has become a critical issue in resource scheduling for edge computing. To tackle these
challenges, this paper proposes a resource scheduling algorithm for edge computing
networks based on multi-objective optimization. This approach utilizes the entropy weight
method to assess both dynamic and static metrics of edge computing nodes, integrating
them into a unified computing power metric for each node. This integration facilitates
a better alignment between computing power and service demands. By modeling the
resource scheduling problem in edge computing networks as a multi-objective Markov
decision process (MOMDP), this study employs multi-objective reinforcement learning
(MORL) and the proximal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm to concurrently optimize
task transmission latency and energy consumption in dynamic environments. Finally,
simulation experiments demonstrate that the proposed algorithm outperforms state-of-the-
art scheduling algorithms in terms of latency, energy consumption, and overall reward.
Additionally, it achieves an optimal hypervolume and Pareto front, effectively balancing
the trade-off between task transmission latency and energy consumption in multi-objective
optimization scenarios.
Keywords: computing power scheduling; edge computing networks; multi-objective
optimization; resource allocation
1. Introduction
With the rapid advancement of 5G and mobile internet technologies, intelligent ter-
minal devices have undergone significant evolution, leading to an exponential growth in
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 https://doi.org/10.3390/app151910837

--- Page 2 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 2 of 30
network data traffic [1–3]. This surge has placed increasing pressure on network infrastruc-
ture, particularly as emerging applications—such as smart grid systems, autonomous driv-
ing, vehicle-to-everything communication, interactive gaming, and ultra-high-definition
video streaming—demand secure, reliable, and ultra-low-latency computing services [4].
Traditional cloud computing architectures [5] struggle to meet these stringent requirements,
especially in latency-critical scenarios, due to the inherent delays associated with central-
ized data processing. To address these challenges, there is a growing imperative to move
computation closer to end users by shifting from centralized cloud data centers to the
network edge. This architectural transformation aims to minimize transmission latency,
reduce bandwidth consumption, and improve service responsiveness. In this context,
edge computing [6,7] has emerged as a pivotal paradigm. As a distributed computing
model, edge computing brings computational resources and data processing capabilities
to edge nodes in proximity to data sources. By enabling real-time computation and local
data analysis, it effectively reduces reliance on remote cloud servers, thereby achieving
lower latency, enhanced bandwidth efficiency, and improved quality of service for delay-
sensitive applications.
With the widespread deployment of edge computing and intelligent terminal devices,
users can more easily access vastly distributed computing resources. However, this conve-
nience increases the burden on edge networks and intensifies demand for computing power.
In edge computing, task execution latency primarily depends on two factors: data trans-
mission time and computation time at edge nodes [8,9]. Energy consumption comprises
three components: server static energy, computational energy, and communication energy.
Static energy is tied to server runtime; computational energy depends on data processing
volume; and communication energy is influenced by transmission distance and data size.
To minimize both latency and energy consumption, effective resource allocation between
mobile devices and edge networks is critical [10]. Resource scheduling in edge nodes is typ-
ically formulated as a mixed-integer nonlinear programming problem. Traditional methods
such as dynamic programming [11] and game theory [12] are computationally intensive
and ill-suited for real-time decisions. To reduce complexity, heuristic local search [13] and
convex optimization [14] have been applied, but they often require extensive iterations,
limiting scalability. Deep reinforcement learning has shown great promise in addressing
these challenges. Integration of deep Q-networks, asynchronous advantage actor–critic,
and temporal difference learning [15–17] into edge scheduling has improved service quality
and resource utilization. Although some studies adopt a multi-objective perspective, many
scheduling strategies focus on single objectives, lack granularity, and rely predominantly
on static metrics to assess computing power—failing to accurately reflect the dynamic
capabilities of edge nodes. Meanwhile, with the rise of cloud-native and edge computing,
microservice architecture has become the dominant paradigm for modern distributed ap-
plications. It decouples complex logic, enhancing scalability, maintainability, and enabling
fine-grained resource scheduling. In real-world computing power networks and edge intel-
ligence scenarios, applications are often structured as workflows, forming directed acyclic
graphs (DAGs) with data dependencies. For instance, the ETSI MEC standard models
edge applications as DAGs of service components to support dynamic orchestration across
cloud, edge, and end devices [18]. Huawei’s Computing Power Network White Paper pro-
poses abstracting tasks into DAGs composed of processing units—such as preprocessing,
inference, and postprocessing—for efficient coordination of heterogeneous resources [19].
Platforms like AWS Panorama allow developers to define computer vision pipelines as
DAGs, where each node represents an independently deployable compute unit [20]. In-
spired by these practices, this paper models computing tasks as microservice-based DAGs
to better capture the structural and resource characteristics of real-world edge applications.

--- Page 3 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 3 of 30
Moreover, modern computing services are inherently modular, allowing decomposition
into interdependent microservices [21] for more flexible and efficient scheduling. Thus,
there is a pressing need for new scheduling strategies that align with the evolving nature of
computing services.
To address these challenges, this paper proposes MOOECN, a multi-objective optimiza-
tion algorithm for resource scheduling in edge computing networks. MOOECN accurately
evaluates node computing power and enables fine-grained, dynamic resource allocation.
A microservice-based edge computing model is introduced, decomposing services into
independently deployable units. A hybrid metric combining static and dynamic indicators
is designed to assess node capability, enabling precise microservice-to-node matching. The
scheduling problem is formulated as a multi-objective Markov decision process and solved
using multi-objective reinforcement learning with proximal policy optimization, simultane-
ously minimizing service delay and energy consumption in dynamic environments.
Our contributions are as follows:
• To assess the computing power of heterogeneous edge nodes, this paper proposes a
hybrid computing power measurement method that combines static and dynamic
metrics to establish a unified evaluation system, enhancing the matching efficiency
between computing nodes and service requirements.
• To facilitate real-time scheduling of microservices for computing power services in edge
computing network scenarios, this paper presents a multi-objective optimization model
for microservice scheduling in edge computing networks, targeting minimized latency
and energy consumption. Formulated as a MOMDP problem, it is efficiently solved via
MORL and PPO algorithms, enabling dynamic multi-objective resource allocation.
• We conducted extensive simulation experiments to validate the effectiveness and
feasibility of the proposed multi-objective optimization-based resource scheduling
algorithm for edge computing networks. The results demonstrate that our algorithm
outperforms others in terms of comprehensive rewards for latency and energy con-
sumption, as well as achieving an optimal Pareto front and hypervolume.
2. Related Work
2.1. Edge Computing Power Scheduling Strategy
Edge computing scheduling primarily involves task offloading and allocation. Task
offloading transfers computation from the cloud or local devices to edge nodes, alleviating
resource pressure on central and terminal systems. Task allocation assigns workloads to
appropriate edge nodes to optimize performance, latency, energy consumption, and other
key metrics.
A fundamental challenge in computation offloading lies in determining the most
effective strategy. Lan et al. [ 22] proposed a task partitioning and coordination frame-
work tailored to heterogeneous edge platforms, specifically designed for computer vision
applications, which considers the partitioning and coordinated utilization of CPU and
GPU resources in heterogeneous edge environments. To address excessive delays during
offloading that can significantly degrade user experience, Chen et al. [23] optimized the
average response time of multi-task parallel scheduling. Pu et al. [ 24] utilized the Lya-
punov method to develop an online task scheduling algorithm aimed at minimizing the
system’s average energy consumption. Jiao et al. [ 25] focused on task scheduling strategies
that minimize both latency and energy costs in a multi-user, single-edge-node scenario.
Wang et al. [26] introduced a decentralized computation offloading algorithm for training
tasks, which reduces the distribution gap in observation–action pairs across multiple expert
agents, thereby effectively mimicking expert behavior. Zhang et al. [ 27] proposed an
energy-saving offloading strategy based on a genetic operator adaptive particle swarm

--- Page 4 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 4 of 30
optimization algorithm, constructing a comprehensive system energy consumption model
that incorporates cloud-edge server operation time, switching energy, and computational
energy, thus facilitating the deployment of deep neural networks in energy-constrained
edge networks. Gao et al. [ 28] proposed an innovative offloading strategy that consid-
ers task dependency, task priority, and resource consumption from the perspective of
multi-dimensional dependencies between server clusters and tasks, employing multi-agent
reinforcement learning to enhance offloading performance and advance the state of the art
in edge computing.
Due to the heterogeneity and resource constraints of edge resources, scheduling in
edge networks poses greater challenges than centralized scheduling in cloud data centers.
To achieve high real-time performance, Peng et al. [29] proposed a decentralized approach
for online task scheduling and resource allocation in edge IoT environments, significantly
reducing offloading response times and improving resource utilization. Phan et al. [ 30]
introduced a traffic-aware horizontal pod autoscaler based on Kubernetes, which performs
resource scaling for IoT applications using real-time network traffic information from
nodes, effectively reducing application response time and increasing throughput. In edge
computing power networks, considering the random arrival of tasks, service migration
delays, and queuing times for unprocessed tasks, Liu et al. [31] proposed a parameterized
deep Q-network method to jointly optimize service placement and computational resource
allocation, aiming to minimize total task delay. Zhou et al. [ 32] presented an approach
combining mixed-integer nonlinear programming with double deep Q-networks to jointly
optimize computation offloading and resource allocation in dynamic multi-user MEC
systems, targeting minimal overall system energy consumption. Zhang et al. [33] proposed
an online parallel task scheduling algorithm that builds adaptive threshold structures on
each edge server, enabling scheduling decisions based on system states and active user in-
formation. Khoshvaght et al. [34] introduced a self-supervised deep reinforcement learning
framework for MEC environments, which generates task embeddings via self-supervised
learning and achieves efficient task allocation under dynamic conditions by integrating
contrastive learning with policy optimization. Long et al. [35] proposed a security-aware
DAG task scheduling strategy with a security trust model to minimize task completion time
while satisfying security constraints. Xie et al. [36] presented a task scheduling approach
that integrates heterogeneous resources and supports dynamic collaboration, designing
a sliding window-based dynamic scheme for real-time task prioritization and optimal
matching to suitable resource nodes.
The aforementioned methods primarily rely on a single static metric to assess node
computing power, failing to capture their comprehensive capabilities. Moreover, many
approaches decompose or transform multi-objective optimization problems into single-
objective ones, resulting in scheduling strategies with narrow and coarse-grained objectives.
This simplification limits their ability to accurately reflect the true computing power land-
scape in edge computing networks. Table 1 summarizes the differences among various
edge computing resource scheduling strategies.
Table 1. Comparison of different edge computing resource scheduling algorithms.
Algorithm Name Algorithm Type Task Type Multi-Objective Dynamic Scheduling Lightweight
EDGEVISION [21] Heuristic Rules + Heterogeneous Re-
source Abstraction Model
DAG Tasks ✓ ✗ ✓
COTDCEG [23] Greedy + Genetic Algorithm DNN Tasks ✓ ✗ ✓
D2D Fogging [24] Online Algorithm Based on Stochas-
tic Optimization
Mobility-Aware Tasks ✓ ✓ ✓
EMCOM [25] Game Theory + Convex Optimiza-
tion
Mobility-Aware Tasks ✓ ✗ ✓

--- Page 5 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 5 of 30
Table 1. Cont.
Algorithm Name Algorithm Type Task Type Multi-Objective Dynamic Scheduling Lightweight
SPSO-GA [27] RL + Q-learning DNN Tasks ✓ ✓ ✓
Com-DDPG [28] MADDPG IoV Tasks ✓ ✓ ✗
DoSRA [29] Distributed Online RL Heterogeneous Tasks ✓ ✓ ✓
THPA [30] Traffic-Aware Algorithm Microservice Tasks ✓ ✓ ✓
PDQN [31] DQN + Policy Gradient Microservice Tasks ✓ ✓ ✓
DRLMC [32] DQN + Policy Gradient Mobility-Aware Tasks ✓ ✓ ✗
EdgeOPT [33] Online Competitive Algorithm Monolithic Tasks ✗ ✓ ✓
ZSTS-MEC [34] SAC+Self-Supervised Learning General Task Scheduling ✓ ✓ ✗
SecDS [35] Heuristic Algorithm DAG Tasks ✓ ✗ ✓
PATD3 [36] TD3 General Task Scheduling ✓ ✓ ✗
✓indicates that the algorithm possesses the feature, while ✗ indicates that it does not.
2.2. Multi-Objective Optimization
Optimization problems are common in engineering design, industrial planning, and
production scheduling, where the goal is to minimize energy consumption and cost while
maximizing profit, output, and efficiency for optimal resource allocation. Single-objective
optimization (SOP) focuses on optimizing one objective under given constraints. However,
real-world scenarios often involve multiple conflicting objectives and constraints—such as
resources, time, and cost—necessitating multi-objective optimization (MOP) to achieve a
balanced solution.
When these multi-objective problems include constraints, they are termed constrained
multi-objective optimization problems (CMOPs). Traditional multi-objective evolutionary
algorithms often struggle with constraint handling and require specialized techniques.
A widely adopted approach converts constraints into additional objectives, enabling a
unified framework to balance optimization goals and constraint satisfaction. For instance,
Mokhtari et al. [37] proposed a fair scheduling method for machine learning tasks on het-
erogeneous edge systems, considering energy constraints while improving task on-time
completion rates. Zhang et al. [38] introduced an edge-native task scheduling method to
optimize the performance of edge-native applications. Ma et al. [39] analyzed three types of
task constraints and developed a heuristic scheduling method based on differential evolu-
tion, achieving faster task sequencing and improved convergence. Gong et al. [40] proposed
a multi-center-based prediction strategy to enhance algorithm adaptability in dynamic
environments; by clustering historical optimal solutions using a penalty function, they
designed a population generation mechanism that leverages spatial distribution informa-
tion among predicted centers to produce an initial population with well-balanced diversity.
Zheng et al. [41] proposed a collaborative fruit fly optimization method for green schedul-
ing of unrelated parallel machines under resource constraints. Wang et al. [42] proposed a
dynamic interval multi-objective evolutionary algorithm incorporating multi-task learning
and inverse mapping: by combining multi-task learning with a self-evolving fuzzy system,
the algorithm predicts the midpoints and widths of intervals, then uses inverse mappings
to project the predicted Pareto front from objective space back into decision space, generat-
ing a well-distributed initial population for the new environment. Li et al. [43] proposed
an improved multi-objective cuckoo search algorithm that integrates the single-objective
cuckoo search framework with Pareto dominance, incorporating fast non-dominated sort-
ing and crowding distance strategies to enhance solution convergence and distribution.
Pan et al. [44] proposed a multi-objective clustering evolutionary algorithm (MCEA) for
workflow offloading in mobile edge computing, introducing sub-deadline constraints
during initialization to increase feasible solutions. An adaptive clustering mechanism is
embedded in the crossover to guide individuals toward high-quality mating partners, and
crossover and mutation probabilities are dynamically adjusted based on historical evolu-
tionary information to balance convergence speed and search direction. Li et al. [45] inves-

--- Page 6 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 6 of 30
tigated a sustainable edge computing framework modeled as a multi-objective problem
minimizing latency and energy consumption, proposing a two-stage hybrid multi-objective
evolutionary algorithm that uses a competitive swarm optimizer in the early stages for
fast convergence and a diversity-enhanced immune algorithm in later stages to preserve
population diversity. Al-Bakhrani et al. [46] proposed a multi-objective adaptive learning
framework for UAV-assisted edge computing, integrating multi-objective reinforcement
learning (MORL), model predictive control, adaptive particle swarm optimization, and
Lyapunov optimization to jointly optimize dynamic resource allocation and system sta-
bility. Qiu et al. [ 47] presented a coevolutionary algorithm for dynamic multi-objective
optimization, designing a multi-population coevolutionary mechanism and leveraging
knowledge transfer among subpopulations to improve search efficiency.
Existing multi-objective optimization algorithms struggle to be directly applied to
resource scheduling in edge computing power networks due to the complexity of the
environment, including heterogeneous devices, dynamic network conditions, and diverse
service requirements. To address these challenges, these algorithms require enhancements
and adaptations to better align with the unique characteristics of edge computing.
3. Edge Computing Scheduling Algorithms
3.1. Microservice Edge Computing Power Network Model
In edge computing power networks, dynamic deployment of microservice instances is
required as computing services evolve to ensure effective utilization of network resources.
As shown in Figure 1, the edge computing power network consists of multiple edge servers,
each with a base station (BS) deployed nearby. The BS provides network services to the
edge server and connects various terminals. A set ES = {es1, es2, . . ., esq} denotes all
edge servers. For any edge server i, the resource vector is defined as Ri = {ri1, ri2, . . .rik},
representing resources such as CPU, memory, and bandwidth available on the server. The
main symbols and variables used in this paper are summarized in Table 2.
In edge computing power networks, this study dynamically updates task deployment
in response to real-time computing requests. The computing service is decomposed into
multiple atomic microservices with hierarchical dependencies, which are deployed across
different edge servers. Higher-level microservices depend on the outputs of lower-level
ones and cannot be executed in parallel. An efficient resource scheduling strategy is
required to handle these dependencies.
Figure 1. Microservice-based edge computing network model.

--- Page 7 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 7 of 30
Table 2. Symbols and definitions.
Symbol Definition
ES Set of edge servers
Ri Resource set of edge server i
S Set of computing services
Mj Set of microservices for computing service Sj
mj,i The i-th microservice of computing service Sj
DAG j Microservice dependency graph of computing service Sj
Vj Set of all nodes in directed acyclic graph j
Aj Set of all edges in directed acyclic graph j
Dj,i Set of all edges incident to microservice mj,i
M Set of tasks pending allocation at time t
Cm,es Transmission rate of microservice m offloaded to edge server es
Toff
m Transmission delay of microservice m
Eoff
m Energy consumption for offloading microservice m
Eexe
m Total computation energy consumption of microservice m
Texe
m Computation delay of microservice m
Tm Total delay of microservice m
Em Total energy consumption of microservice m
zij Value of the j-th computing power metric at the i-th computing node
pij Relative importance of the j-th metric at the i-th computing node
ej Information entropy value of the j-th indicator
dj Information utility value of the j-th indicator
Wj Weight of the j-th indicator
Fi Comprehensive computing power evaluation value of node i
CPcom Comprehensive computing capability of a computing node
CPtotal Total computational resources
SPtotal Total storage resources
CPidel Remaining resource quantity
SPidel Remaining storage space
ESi Computing power quintuple of node i
w Preference vector
sm,es The state vector of task m offloaded to edge server es
sm,u The state vector of task m offloaded to terminal u
Dw Preference w replay buffer
θw Policy parameters for preference w
xm,es
xm,es is a binary variable. xm,es = 1 means task m is offloaded to edge server es
and xm,es = 0 otherwise.
Ls
m The byte size of microservice m.
Lc
m The floating-point operation count of microservice m.
Fe The floating-point computing capacity of the edge server.
Fd The floating-point computing capacity of the end device.
ηd The energy efficiency ratio of the end device.
ηe The energy efficiency ratio of the edge server.
The set of computing services to be deployed in the network is defined as S =
{s1, s2, . . .sn}. For any computing servicej, there arel microservicesMj = {mj,1, mj,2, . . .mj,l}.
Since different edge nodes offer varying computational capabilities, it is essential to assign

--- Page 8 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 8 of 30
appropriate edge nodes to microservices according to their resource requirements. As shown
in Figure 2, we model the microservice dependency structure of serviceSj as a directed acyclic
graph DAG j = (Vj, Aj). Below is a detailed description of all nodes and edges in DAG j.
Vj = {mj,1, mj,2, . . ., mj,i, . . .mj,l} represents the set of all nodes in the graph, totalingl nodes,
indicating that serviceSj consists ofl microservices. Each microservice has three attributes,
mj,i = (cj,i, CPcost j,i, SPcost j,i), where cj,i denotes the computational load required to execute
microservicemj,i, CPcost j,i denotes the computing resources needed, andSPcost j,i denotes the
storage resources required.Aj = {Dj,1, Dj,2, . . ., Dj,i, . . .Dj,l} is the set of edges in the graph,
where Dj,i represents all edges connected to nodemj,i. For example, if node mj,5 has two
incoming and two outgoing edges, thenDj,5 = {dj,2,5, dj,3,5, dj,5,7, dj,5,8}. Here, dj,a,b denotes a
directed edge from nodemj,a to node mj,b, whose weight indicates the amount of data that
microservicemj,b requires frommj,a, includingmj,a’s output and the execution environment
for mj,b. Data transmission between microservices reflects their dependency relationships.
Figure 2. Microservice dependency topology graph.
At each time step t, microservices with an in-degree of 0 are selected from the DAGs
of the computing service and added to the pending task set M = {m1, m2, . . ., ml}, where
l denotes the number of such microservices at time t. In edge computing networks, the
communication link between mobile devices and edge servers is typically modeled as an
additive white Gaussian noise channel. According to Shannon’s information theory, the
theoretical maximum transmission rate—i.e., the channel capacity—of this link is given by
the Shannon–Hartley theorem [48]. The transmission rate for offloading microservice m
from its local device to edge server es is given by
Cm,es = W log2
 
1 + poff|hm,es|2
σ2
!
, ∀m ∈ M, es ∈ ES (1)
Here, W is the channel bandwidth, σ2 is the noise power spectral density, representing
the channel noise level, poff is the offloading transmission power, and |hm,es|2 denotes the
channel gain, reflecting the signal transmission quality from the user to the edge node.
We use x = {xm,es}m∈M,es∈ES to represent the offloading decision. xm,es is a binary
variable (taking only the values 0 or 1). When xm,es = 1, it indicates that microservice m is
offloaded to edge server es. In this case, the transmission delay of microservice m is
Toff
m = xm,es
Ls
m
Cm,es
, ∀m ∈ M, ∀es ∈ ES (2)

--- Page 9 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 9 of 30
where Ls
m denotes the byte size of the microservice, and Cm,es represents the transmission
rate when microservice m is offloaded to edge node es. The energy consumption for
offloading microservice m is given by
Eoff
m = poffToff
m , ∀m ∈ M (3)
where Toff
m denotes the transmission latency of microservice m, and poff represents the
power consumption of task offloading. If microservicem is offloaded to the edge computing
network, its computational delay is given by
Texe
m = Lc
m
Fe
, ∀m ∈ M (4)
where Lc
m denotes the floating-point operation count of microservice m, and Fe represents
the floating-point computing capacity of the edge server. When xm,es = 0, it indicates that
microservice m is executed locally, and its computational delay is
Texe
m = Lc
m
Fd
, ∀m ∈ M (5)
where Fd denotes the floating-point computing capacity of the end device. The total energy
consumption for computing microservice m is given by
Eexe
m = (1 − xm,es) · Lc
m
ηd
+ xm,es · Lc
m
ηe
, ∀m ∈ M, ∀es ∈ ES (6)
where Lc
m denotes the floating-point computation workload of microservice m, xm,es in-
dicates whether microservice m is offloaded to edge server es, nd denotes the energy
efficiency ratio of the end device, and ne denotes the energy efficiency ratio of the edge
server. Therefore, the total delay and total energy consumption of microservice m are
given by
Tm = Toff
m + Texe
m , Em = Eoff
m + Eexe
m , ∀es ∈ ES (7)
3.2. Hybrid Static–Dynamic Computing Power Measurement
In edge computing power networks, generalized computing resources encompass
computational capabilities (serial and parallel), network bandwidth, and storage capacity.
Different services have heterogeneous requirements for these resources. This paper pro-
poses a multi-metric computing power measurement method based on entropy weighting,
which integrates both static and dynamic resource characteristics through dimensional-
ity reduction.
To this end, we propose a multi-indicator computing power measurement method
based on the entropy weight method. This method assigns weights according to the
magnitude of absolute differences in an indicator’s values across different devices. An
indicator with large variation across devices has strong discriminative power for assessing
computing capacity and thus should be assigned a higher weight. Conversely, an indicator
with little variation across devices provides limited discrimination and should be assigned
a lower weight.
Assume there are q edge servers and k computing power indicators, forming the
original indicator data matrix: 

z11 . . . z1˙k
... ... ...
zq1 . . . zq˙k


(8)

--- Page 10 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 10 of 30
Here, zij represents the value of the j-th computing power indicator for the i-th computing
node. In multi-indicator evaluation, different indicators vary in dimension and range, so
direct use of raw data may introduce bias. Therefore, standardization is first applied to elim-
inate dimensional effects. This paper adopts positive indicators, and the standardization
formula is as follows:
rij = zij − min(zj)
max(zj) − min(zj) (9)
Here, min(zj) and max(zj) represent the minimum and maximum values of the j-th com-
puting power indicator, respectively. Next, we calculate the proportion of each indicator
across the computing nodes, i.e., the relative importance of the j-th indicator for the i-th
computing node. The calculation formula is
pij = rij
∑k
i=1 rij
(10)
(0 ≤ pij ≤ 1, i = 1, 2,. . ., k, j = 1, 2,. . .n). Subsequently, a proportion matrix for the
data indicators is established, followed by the calculation of information entropy. The
information entropy value for the j-th indicator is calculated as
ej = − 1
ln m
m
∑
i=1
pij ln pij (11)
Here, ln m is the normalization factor, ensuring that the entropy value falls within the range
[0, 1], and pij ln pij represents the information content of thei-th computing node for the j-th
computing power indicator. The information utility value for the j-th indicator is given by
dj = 1 − ej (12)
Then, based on the information utility value, the weight of each indicator is calculated.
The larger the weight, the greater the importance of the indicator in the comprehensive
evaluation. The weight is defined as wi:
wj = dj
∑k
j=1 dj
(13)
Based on the weights of each indicator, a comprehensive evaluation of each computing
node can be conducted, and the comprehensive evaluation value for each computing node
is calculated as
Ei =
m
∑
j=1
rij wj (14)
In this study, CPU frequency, parallel computing capability, serial computing capa-
bility, and storage space are used as static indicators for computing power measurement.
The entropy weight method is applied to compute the weights of CPU frequency, parallel
computing capability, and serial computing capability, resulting in a multi-factor static
composite indicator—the comprehensive computing capability CPcom of the computing
node. Other static indicators include the total computing resources CPtotal and total stor-
age resources SPtotal . For dynamic indicators, the remaining computing resources CPidel
and remaining storage space SPidel are considered. Based on these static and dynamic
indicators, they are integrated into a unified comprehensive computing power indicator
for the computing node. For example, the computing power of node i can be represented
by a quintuple ESi = (CPcom i, CPtotal i, SPtotal i, CPidel i, SPidel i).

--- Page 11 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 11 of 30
3.3. Multi-Objective Optimization for Resource Scheduling
To address dynamic microservice workloads in edge computing power networks
and optimize resource utilization and energy efficiency, this paper proposes a computing
resource scheduling algorithm based on multi-objective optimization.
In this paper, the resource scheduling problem in edge computing networks is modeled
as a multi-objective Markov decision process (MOMDP). By employing multi-objective
reinforcement learning (MORL) and the proximal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm,
the goal of simultaneously optimizing task transmission latency and energy consumption
in dynamic environments is achieved. Figure 3 illustrates the workflow of the proposed
multi-objective optimization-based computing resource scheduling algorithm.
Figure 3. Multi-Objective optimization-based computing resource scheduling algorithm workflow.
Based on different application scenarios, edge computing networks have varying
preferences for energy consumption and latency. Therefore, we model the problem as
an MOMDP to simultaneously minimize both objectives. We employ MORL to obtain
Pareto-optimal solutions under different weightings. A preference vector w = (wE, wT) is
introduced to weigh energy consumption and latency, satisfying wE + wT = 1, where E
denotes energy consumption, T denotes delay, and λm represents the weight coefficient.
For any given task m and current system state s, the policy π selects the offloading decision
xm,es according to a probability distribution. For any given w, the multi-objective resource
scheduling decision is given by the following formula:
minπ Ex∼π
"
∑
m∈M
λm(wTTm + wEEm)
#
s.t. xm,es ∈ {0, 1}, ∀m ∈ M, ∀es ∈ ES
CPdemand m ≤ CPidel es
SPdemand m ≤ SPidel es
(15)
To facilitate multi-objective analysis, we consider a preference setW = {w1, w2, . . ., wn},
consisting of n distinct preferences. The system provides a corresponding policy set
Π = {π1, π2, . . ., πn} to meet the multi-objective scheduling goals under different prefer-
ences. The Pareto front is used to balance the two performance metrics, and the hypervol-
ume metric is employed to evaluate its quality.
3.3.1. MOOECN Scheduling Scheme
MOMDP is a tuple < S, A, T , γ, µ, R >, where S represents the state space of the
system, A denotes the action space, T describes the transition process, γ is the discount
factor, µ represents the probability distribution of the initial state, and R is the reward
function. At decision step t, the system determines whether the current task m is executed
locally on terminal u or offloaded to edge server es for execution.
State S: The system considers q + 1 state spaces, where q denotes the number of edge
servers currently online and 1 represents the terminal to which the current task belongs.

--- Page 12 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 12 of 30
Therefore, the state st ∈ Sat step t is a state space collection of length q + 1, which can be
expressed as St = {sm,es ∪ sm,u | es ∈ ES}. The state vector of the server at step t can be
represented as
sm,es = (Ls
m, Lc
m, Cu,es, Fe, nes, q, βes), ∀es ∈ ES (16)
Here, state sm,es contains the byte size Ls
m of microservice m, the floating-point computation
workload Lc
m of microservice m, the transmission rate Cu,es from the user device of task
m to the edge server es, the floating-point computing capability Fe of the edge server, the
number of tasks nes being executed on edge server es at time t, the number of currently
online edge servers q, and the residual size distribution Be of tasks being executed on the
edge server. The state vector of the terminal at step t can be expressed as
sm,u = (Ls
m, Lc
m, Fd, nu, u, βu) (17)
Here, the state sm,u contains the byte size Ls
m of microservice m, the floating-point computa-
tion workload Lc
m of microservice m, the floating-point computing capability Fd of the edge
server, the number of tasks nu being executed on end device u at time t, the user ID u to
which the task belongs, and the residual size distribution Be of tasks being executed by the
end device.
Action A: The action space is denoted as A = {0, 1,. . ., q}, whose dimension is
dynamically variable, depending on the number of currently online edge servers q. Here, 0
represents the user device to which the task belongs and {1, 2,. . ., q} denotes the index of
edge server es. The action at ∈ Aat step t indicates where to schedule task m for execution.
This is formally expressed as follows:
at = ∑
es∈ES
es · xm,es(t) (18)
To achieve the dynamic nature of the action space, we predefine a maximum action
space Amax = {0, 1,. . ., Qmax}, where Qmax denotes the maximum number of edge servers
supported by the system. The output dimension of the policy network is fixed at |Amax|.
At each decision step, the environment informs the agent of the current effective action
dimension |A| = q + 1. By employing a dynamic pruning mechanism, we only take the
first |A| dimensions of the network’s output logits for Softmax normalization, thereby
generating a policy distribution that precisely matches the currently available resources
in the environment. This design enables a single policy to adaptively respond to the
dynamic changes in the resource pool, handling the joining or leaving of edge nodes
without requiring retraining.
Transition T : It describes the transition of the state space from st to st+1, with the
action being at, denoted by P(st+1 | st, at).
Reward R: Our reward function is set in vector form, given byR : S × A →R2. Here,
rE and rT represent the rewards for latency and energy consumption, respectively. If the
system offloads task m to server es or executes it locally on terminal u at time t, the energy
consumption reward determined by the state space sm,u and action space at at this point is
rE(st, at) =− ˆEm = −(xm,es Eoff
m + Eexe
m ) (19)
where ˆEm is the estimated energy consumption of task m. To maximize the reward, the
energy consumption is set as a negative value. The total reward for energy consumption
throughout the entire training process is given by
RE =
T
∑
t=1
rE(st, at) =− ∑
m∈M
ˆEm (20)

--- Page 13 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 13 of 30
The latency consumption reward at this point is
rT(st, at) =− ˆTm = −(xm,es Toff
m + Texe
m ) (21)
where ˆTm is the estimated latency of task m, also set as a negative value. The total reward
for latency throughout the entire training process is given by
RT =
T
∑
t=1
rT(st, at) =− ∑
m∈M
ˆTm (22)
The reward after normalizing the latency and energy consumption rewards under
different preferences is
rT(st, at) =wT ×
 rT(st, at) − minT
maxT − minT
, rE(st, at) − minE
maxE − minE

(23)
where wT is the transpose of w, minT, maxT are the dynamically saved minimum and
maximum values of the latency reward, and minE and maxE are the dynamically saved
minimum and maximum values of the energy consumption reward. In this way, the latency
and energy consumption rewards are dynamically normalized to the same scale. The total
reward for the entire training process is
Rw =
Tepi
∑
t=1
rw(st, at) (24)
3.3.2. PPO-Based Scheduling Strategy
This paper adopts an MORL strategy based on the PPO algorithm to address the
resource scheduling problem in edge computing environments. By introducing a clipping
mechanism to constrain the magnitude of policy updates, the training stability and sample
efficiency are improved. The core idea is to use a clipping function to bound the probability
ratio between the new and old policies, thereby preventing instability caused by excessively
large updates. Specifically, the loss function incorporates a clipped surrogate term that
penalizes updates falling outside a predefined range. The clipping function is defined
as follows:
∇θ Li
clip (θ) =Et

min(rprt (θ), clip(rprt (θ), 1 − ϵ, 1 + ϵ)) ˆAi(t)∇θ log πθ(at | st)
 (25)
where rprt (θ) = πθ (at|st)
πθold (at|st) is the probability ratio between the new and old policies, ϵ is the
clipping hyperparameter used to limit the magnitude of policy updates, and ˆAi(t) is the
advantage function for objective i, used to estimate the gradient direction for each objective.
This paper extends the PPO algorithm to handle multiple conflicting objectives, ad-
dressing the multi-objective optimization problem of latency and energy consumption. To
reduce the variance of policy gradient estimation, the generalized advantage estimation
technique is employed. By introducing a discount factor λ, the advantage function is com-
bined to estimate the advantage value for each objective. The specific advantage function is
defined as follows:
Ai(t) =
Tepi −1
∑
t′ =t
γt′ −tλ(αiri(st′ , at′ ) +γVi,θ(st′ +1) − Vi,θ(st′ )) (26)

--- Page 14 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 14 of 30
where αi is the weight for objective i, ri(st′ , at′ ) is the immediate reward for objective i, and
Vi,θ(st′ +1) is the value function estimate for objective i.
To find the Pareto front, this paper employs the Ascent Simplex method, which
generates a composite gradient direction by convexly combining multiple single-objective
gradients, enabling the policy to optimize along the Pareto front. The gradient direction for
preference w can be expressed as
∇θ Lw
clip (θ) =wT(∇θ LT
clip (θ), ∇θ LE
clip (θ)) (27)
where w is the weight vector of preferences, and ∇θ LT
clip (θ) and ∇θ LE
clip (θ) are the gradient
directions for the latency and energy consumption objectives, respectively.
The MOOECN algorithm proposed in this paper formulates the joint minimization of
latency and energy consumption as a multi-objective Markov decision process (MOMDP).
The optimization objectives for latency and energy consumption are designed as reward
functions for multi-objective reinforcement learning (MORL). For a given preference set
w = {w1, w2, . . ., wn}, the proximal policy optimization (PPO) method is employed to train
the corresponding policy set Π = {π1, π2, . . ., πn}, aiming to maximize the total reward
Rw and approximate the Pareto front PF(Π).
3.4. Algorithm Implementation and Analysis
3.4.1. Algorithm Implementation
We applied the proposed MOOECN method to edge computing networks, and
Algorithm 1 details the workflow of the multi-objective optimization-based computing
resource scheduling. First, for each preference, the replay memory buffer and policy pa-
rameters are initialized, and the learning rate and total number of training episodes are set.
Subsequently, for each preference, during each training episode, actions are selected based
on the current policy, and the system state is updated through the transition function. The
state, action, reward, and information about the next state are stored in the memory buffer.
Next, the policy parameters are updated using gradient descent, and the optimized policy
is incorporated into the policy set. Finally, by computing the Pareto frontier of all policies,
the optimal solution is determined.
Algorithm 1 MOOECN
1: Initialize the replay memory buffer Dw and policy parameters θw for each preference w.
2: Initialize the learning rate α and the total number of episodes Tepi for training.
3: Set the policy set Π ← ∅
4: for each preference w do
5: for each episode Tepi do
6: for each step t do
7: Select action at according to policy πθw
8: Obtain the next state st+1 using the transition function T
9: Store (st, at, rw(st, at), st+1) in Dw
10: end for
11: Update policy parameters θw : θw ← θw + α∇θw Lcity
w (θw)
12: end for
13: Add policy πθw to the policy set Π
14: end for
15: Compute the Pareto front PF(Π)
3.4.2. Complexity Analysis
The time complexity of the algorithm is primarily determined by the training phase
and the Pareto frontier computation. The time complexity of the training phase is

--- Page 15 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 15 of 30
O(N · Tepi · T · (P + S)), where N is the number of preferences, Tepi is the number of train-
ing episodes, T is the number of steps per episode, P is the number of policy parameters,
and S is the state space dimension. The time complexity of the Pareto frontier computation
is O(N2 · M), where M is the number of objective functions. Therefore, the overall time
complexity is O(N · Tepi · T · (P + S) +N2 · M).
4. Experimentation and Evaluation
In this chapter, we conducted extensive experiments to address the following re-
search questions:
• Question 1: What is the performance of our multi-objective optimization-based edge
computing network resource scheduling (MOOECN)?
• Question 2: How do different components of MOOECN impact its performance?
• Question 3: What is the influence of hyperparameters on MOOECN?
4.1. Experimental Setup
4.1.1. Simulation Environment
The simulation environment in this experiment mainly consists of two components:
terminals and edge servers. Terminals are used to generate tasks, request task scheduling,
and process tasks; edge nodes provide computational resources to handle tasks. Tasks
are randomly generated by the terminals, with task sizes set within the range [0.1 MB,
100 MB], generated based on an exponential distribution and bounded by predefined
upper and lower limits. This setup simulates common task load patterns in edge comput-
ing environments. The selected range reflects typical data volumes found in real-world
application scenarios while preventing extreme values from adversely affecting system
stability. The task size design accounts for both the frequent occurrence of small tasks
and the occasional presence of large ones, aligning with the characteristics of practical
task distributions in edge computing environments. At the same time, this configuration
facilitates the evaluation of scheduling algorithms under various load conditions. Each
task generated by the terminals is saved as a DAG composed of microservices. We set
up 10 terminals and 20 edge servers and created 64 different edge computing network
environments for parallel training. For each edge computing network environment, the
preference set related to energy consumption and latency is set to Ω, with 50 different
preferences obtained at intervals of 0.02. For each preference, a task scheduling process
with 100 time steps is conducted to fit the Pareto front, and 256 edge computing network
environments are created for parallel testing. The specific experimental model parameter
settings are shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Model parameters.
Symbol Quantity Values
Tepi Total number of steps in one training cycle 100
∆t Time per step 1 s
U Number of terminals 10
ES Number of edge servers 20
Cter CPU frequency of terminals 2 ± 0.5 GHz
Cedg CPU frequency of edge servers 4 ± 1 GHz
C Channel bandwidth 16.6 MHz
L Task size 0.1 MB–100 MB
po f f Offloading power 0.01 W
σ2 Noise power spectral density −174 dBm/Hz
D Distance between terminals and edge servers 50–500 m

--- Page 16 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 16 of 30
In the baseline algorithms, the confidence parameter of MAB is set to 1.5; for DQN,
the learning rate is 1 × 10−4, the discount factor is 0.95, and the experience replay buffer
size is 10,000; for SAC, the learning rate is 3 × 10−4 and the target network update rate is
0.005; and greedy, random, and heuristic algorithms have no trainable parameters.
4.1.2. Evaluation Metrics
We consider the following metrics to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm.
• Energy consumption: The total energy consumption of the computational tasks during
a complete training cycle, i.e., − ∑M
m=1(xm,es Eoff
m + Eexe
m ), es ∈ ES.
• Latency: The total latency of the computational tasks during a complete training cycle,
i.e., ∑M
m=1(xm,es Toff
m + Texe
m ), es ∈ ES.
• Total reward: The cumulative reward value obtained over a complete training cycle,
i.e., Rw = ∑
Tepi
t=1 rw(st, at).
• Pareto frontier: For any strategy under a given preference, an optimal trade-off
between latency and energy consumption can be maintained, i.e., PF(Π) ={π ∈ Π |
∄π′ ∈ Π:yπ′
≻P yπ}.
• Pareto hypervolume: This metric is used to measure the approximation quality of
the Pareto frontier. It evaluates the performance of multi-objective optimization
algorithms by calculating the volume between the Pareto frontier and a reference point.
4.1.3. Baseline
We evaluate the performance of the proposed MOOECN algorithm and compare
it with a multi-armed bandit-based scheme, a deep Q-network-based scheme, a greedy-
based scheme, a random-based scheme, a soft actor–critic-based scheme, and a heuristic-
based scheme.
• Multi-armed bandit-based scheme [49]: This approach formulates the task scheduling
problem in edge computing as a contextual multi-armed bandit problem. Each “arm”
corresponds to an available edge server or a scheduling action (e.g., local execution,
offloading to edge node A/B). At each decision step, the system observes the current
task features—such as task size, deadline, and device battery level—as context infor-
mation and dynamically adjusts its selection policy based on historical rewards (e.g.,
task completion delay, energy consumption, success rate). This approach exhibits low
computational overhead and fast convergence, making it suitable for lightweight edge
devices; however, it cannot explicitly model state transitions or optimize long-term
cumulative rewards.
• Deep Q-network-based scheme [ 50]: This scheme formulates task scheduling as a
Markov decision process (MDP) and employs a deep Q-network (DQN) to solve for
the optimal policy. DQN uses a deep neural network to approximate the Q-function
and stabilizes the training process through experience replay and a target network.
This method is capable of handling high-dimensional state spaces and learning long-
term optimized strategies; however, it has high sample efficiency requirements and
may face significant training overhead in edge computing environments.
• Greedy algorithm-based scheme [51]: This scheme selects, at each decision step, the
action that yields the highest immediate reward based solely on the current state,
without considering the impact of future states. For example, it always schedules tasks
to the edge node with the current lowest load or the shortest estimated completion
time. It is simple to implement and highly responsive, making it suitable for scenarios
with stringent real-time requirements. However, due to the lack of consideration of
long-term performance, it is prone to getting trapped in local optima and tends to per-

--- Page 17 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 17 of 30
form unstably, especially in dynamic edge environments with fluctuating workloads
or resources.
• Random-based scheme [ 52]: This scheme selects, at each decision step, the action
that yields the highest immediate reward based solely on the current state, without
considering the impact of future states. For example, it always schedules tasks to the
edge node with the current lowest load or the shortest estimated completion time.
It is simple to implement and highly responsive, making it suitable for scenarios
with stringent real-time requirements. However, due to the lack of consideration of
long-term performance, it is prone to getting trapped in local optima and tends to per-
form unstably, especially in dynamic edge environments with fluctuating workloads
or resources.
• SAC-based approach [ 53]: This scheme uniformly randomly selects a scheduling
target from all available actions at each time step, without relying on any histor-
ical experience or state information. Although seemingly inefficient, it serves as
a baseline to effectively evaluate whether other algorithms genuinely outperform
random, non-strategic behavior. Moreover, in highly uncertain environments or
during the early exploration phase, the random policy helps collect diverse experi-
ence data and is commonly used in the initial exploration stage of reinforcement
learning algorithms.
• Heuristic algorithm-based approach [54]: This scheme designs domain-specific rules
to rapidly generate approximate optimal scheduling decisions. The solving strategy,
crafted based on experience, intuition, or problem-specific knowledge, aims to obtain
high-quality solutions within a reasonable computational time, which is especially
suitable for problems with high computational complexity that are difficult to solve
exactly (e.g., NP-hard problems). While it does not guarantee finding the global
optimum, it often achieves good performance in practical applications and is widely
used in combinatorial optimization, scheduling, path planning, resource allocation,
and related fields.
4.2. Experimental Results
4.2.1. Performance Comparison
Figure 4a illustrates the variation in total rewards under different preferences for our
proposed MOOECN algorithm and the baseline algorithms. We integrated the negative
values of latency and energy consumption into the reward function. A higher reward
value indicates that the scheduling algorithm achieves a better balance between latency
and energy consumption, aligning more closely with the optimization objectives. Our
proposed MOOECN algorithm attains the highest reward values under most preference
settings. Figures 4b and 4c, respectively, depict the reward variations for latency and energy
consumption under different preferences for the MOOECN algorithm and other baseline
algorithms. Under most preference configurations, our algorithm also achieves optimal per-
formance in terms of both latency and energy consumption. The statistical results show that
our proposed method outperforms the DQN algorithm in 41 out of 51 weight preferences
and surpasses the SAC algorithm in 31 cases. The MAB algorithm performs better only
under a few specific weight settings, and its performance exhibits significant fluctuations.
All other baseline algorithms yield inferior results across all51 weight preferences. Further-
more, under extreme preferences wt = 0 and wt = 1, our proposed MOOECN maintains
stable performance, while several baseline methods suffer from a sharp performance degra-
dation. This demonstrates that the proposed approach possesses superior robustness
and generalization capability. MOOECN formulates the resource scheduling problem as
a multi-objective Markov decision process and integrates multi-objective reinforcement

--- Page 18 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 18 of 30
learning with the proximal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm to achieve coordinated
optimization of latency and energy consumption. Its key advantage lies in effectively
maintaining solution diversity and adapting to varying user preferences, thereby achieving
superior overall performance in dynamic environments.
(a) Total reward variation
(b) Latency variation
 (c) Energy consumption variation
Figure 4. Comparison of reward values across different algorithms.
Simultaneously, we conducted a detailed analysis of the Pareto frontiers of each
algorithm and evaluated their performance in multi-objective optimization problems
using the Pareto hypervolume metric. The Pareto frontier reflects the trade-off between
the two objectives of latency and energy consumption, while the Pareto hypervolume
quantifies the overall performance of the algorithm. We first calculated the Pareto
hypervolume for each algorithm, and the results are presented in Table 4. From the
Pareto hypervolume results, it is evident that the MOOECN algorithm performs the best,
with its hypervolume value being significantly higher than those of the other algorithms.
This indicates that MOOECN achieves a better balance between latency and energy
consumption, providing a greater number of Pareto-optimal solutions. In contrast, the
random algorithm has the lowest hypervolume value, suggesting its poor performance
in multi-objective optimization problems and its difficulty in finding an effective balance
between latency and energy consumption. MOOECN effectively explores the optimal
trade-off frontier between latency and energy consumption through multi-objective
reinforcement learning, generating a more widely distributed and diverse set of non-
dominated solutions. Moreover, the preference-conditioned mechanism enables the
algorithm to cover the full spectrum of solutions from extreme preferences to balanced
trade-offs, thereby significantly expanding the hypervolume of the Pareto front.
Table 4. Comparison of Pareto hypervolume across algorithms.
Algorithm Greedy Heuristics MAB Random SAC DQN MOOECN
Pareto Hypervolume 24.22 122.63 390.39 17.34 209.62 1323.35 1545.55
Bold values indicate the best results.

--- Page 19 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 19 of 30
Furthermore, to verify whether there exists a significant difference between our proposed
method and the baseline methods, we conducted at-test statistical analysis. Ap-value ≤ 0.01
is considered statistically significant. Our method was compared with six baseline approaches,
and the results are presented in Table 5. As can be observed, the proposed method exhibits
statistically significant differences compared to all baseline methods.
Table 5. p-values of hypervolume comparison with the proposed method.
Algorithm Greedy Heuristics MAB Random SAC DQN
p-value ≈6 × 10−8 ≈1 × 10−7 ≈4 × 10−7 ≈5 × 10−8 ≈2 × 10−7 ≈8 × 10−4
Through the visualization of the Pareto front, as shown in Figure 5, the performance
differences among various algorithms in jointly optimizing latency and energy consumption
can be intuitively evaluated. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed
MOOECN algorithm significantly outperforms existing methods in terms of solution
convergence, spread, and diversity. The Pareto front obtained by MOOECN contains
21 non-dominated solutions, uniformly covering the entire trade-off region from low-
latency–high-energy to high-latency–low-energy, thereby fully reflecting its capability to
provide diverse scheduling strategies under different optimization preferences. Moreover,
MOOECN achieves the highest hypervolume value, indicating its superior multi-objective
search ability in approximating the true Pareto front and effectively balancing multiple
dimensions of system performance.
Figure 5. Privacy-preserving dynamic global graph construction.
In comparison, existing algorithms exhibit notable limitations in multi-objective
optimization performance. Although DQN models complex state spaces using deep
neural networks, its solution set is sparsely distributed, resulting in a relatively lower
hypervolume. SAC demonstrates certain advantages in policy exploration, but ex-
perimental results show that its Pareto front is highly concentrated with a limited
number of solutions, yielding a hypervolume lower than both MOOECN and DQN,
indicating insufficient exploration efficiency in multi-objective tasks and an inability
to adequately cover the trade-off space. MAB dynamically adjusts action selection

--- Page 20 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 20 of 30
based on historical rewards and possesses certain online learning capabilities; however,
its use of a linear model to represent state–action relationships fails to capture the
high-dimensional nonlinear couplings inherent to multi-terminal, multi-server, and
multi-task parallel environments. Heuristics are typically designed based on prior
knowledge with fixed rules, enabling rapid generation of feasible solutions in specific
scenarios, but they lack adaptive learning mechanisms and thus struggle to flexibly
adjust scheduling strategies in response to the high dynamics and heterogeneity of
edge environments, such as real-time load, channel conditions, and energy constraints.
The greedy method prioritizes immediate reward maximization by selecting the locally
optimal action at each decision step, offering low computational complexity but com-
pletely neglecting long-term system benefits, making it prone to suboptimal solutions.
The random approach relies entirely on undirected action sampling without leveraging
environmental feedback or any learning mechanism, leading to highly arbitrary and
ineffective scheduling decisions.
In summary , existing algorithms exhibit varying degrees of limitations in terms of model
expressiveness, long-term planning, multi-objective coordination, and environmental adapt-
ability . In contrast, the proposed MOOECN algorithm consistently outperforms baseline
methods—including MAB, DQN, SAC, greedy , heuristics, and random models—across key
performance metrics such as Pareto front distribution, hypervolume, latency–energy trade-
off capability , and cumulative reward. Experimental results demonstrate that MOOECN
possesses superior multi-objective optimization capability and robustness in complex edge
computing environments, enabling it to provide high-quality and diverse solutions for re-
source scheduling, with strong potential for practical deployment.
4.2.2. Ablation Study
To investigate the effectiveness of different components of MOOECN, we conducted
an ablation study.
(1) What is the impact of the hybrid dynamic–static computing power measurement
method on resource scheduling in edge computing networks? From Figure 6, it can be
observed that MOOECN, which incorporates the computing power measurement scheme,
achieves higher reward values in terms of energy consumption, latency, and total reward.
Based on these results, we can infer that the computing power measurement method
better aligns the computing resources of edge servers with the resource demands of end
devices. By allocating appropriate computing nodes to computing services through the
scheduling algorithm, MOOECN significantly enhances the overall efficiency of computing
network scheduling.
(2) What are the differences between simple task scheduling and microservice-
based computing resource scheduling? From Figure 7, it can be observed that the
performance differences between simple task scheduling and microservice-based com-
puting resource scheduling are relatively small in terms of comprehensive rewards and
energy consumption. However, in terms of latency, simple task scheduling slightly out-
performs microservice-based computing resource scheduling. This is primarily because
microservice-based scheduling requires full consideration of the dependencies between
microservices, where the execution of some microservices must wait for the completion
of others, thereby increasing latency to some extent. Nevertheless, our model effectively
handles more complex real-world scenarios based on microservices, demonstrating
stronger adaptability and practicality.

--- Page 21 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 21 of 30
(a) Total reward variation
(b) Latency variation
 (c) Energy consumption variation
Figure 6. Effectiveness of the Hybrid Dynamic-Static Computing Power Measurement Method.
(a) Total reward variation
(b) Latency variation
 (c) Energy consumption variation
Figure 7. Effectiveness of microservice-based computing resource scheduling.
4.2.3. Hyperparameter Analysis
In this paper, we conduct hyperparameter experiments to analyze the impact of key
hyperparameters on the performance of our scheduling algorithm.
(1) Impact of the number of edge servers on scheduling algorithm performance. To
investigate the influence of the number of edge servers on the performance of the scheduling
algorithm, we fixed the number of end devices and set the number of edge servers to
edge = [10, 20, 30], testing the algorithm’s performance under different configurations.

--- Page 22 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 22 of 30
From the results in Figure 8, it can be observed that in terms of energy consumption
rewards, as the number of edge servers increases, the total power consumption required to
maintain all servers also rises, leading to a decrease in energy consumption rewards across
all preference weights. Meanwhile, in terms of latency rewards, as the number of edge
servers increases, the available computing resources become more abundant, significantly
reducing task completion latency and consequently increasing the corresponding latency
rewards. Regarding comprehensive rewards, when the number of edge servers isedge = 10,
the comprehensive reward reaches its highest value in the first half of the preference
weights but declines in the second half. As the number of edge servers further increases,
the comprehensive reward values under different configurations gradually converge. This
indicates that for different numbers of edge servers, it is necessary to select appropriate
preference weights to balance task scheduling latency and energy consumption, thereby
maximizing the comprehensive reward of task scheduling.
(a) Total reward variation
(b) Latency variation
 (c) Energy consumption variation
Figure 8. Impact of the number of edge servers on scheduling algorithm performance.
(2) Impact of the number of terminals on scheduling algorithm performance. To
investigate the influence of the number of terminals on the performance of the schedul-
ing algorithm, we fixed the number of edge servers and set the number of terminals to
terminals = [5, 10, 15], testing the algorithm’s performance under different configurations.
From the results in Figure 9, it can be observed that the differences in latency, energy
consumption, and total rewards across different numbers of terminals are not significant.
This result demonstrates that our proposed MOOECN exhibits strong adaptability and
robustness when handling computing task scheduling at varying scales. Whether for small-
scale or large-scale computing tasks, MOOECN effectively balances latency and energy
consumption, ensuring that the comprehensive reward of task scheduling remains at a
high level. This adaptability primarily stems from the design of MOOECN’s optimization
algorithm, which dynamically adjusts scheduling strategies based on task requirements
and resource distribution, thereby achieving efficient resource allocation and task execution
across different scenarios. Consequently, MOOECN has broad applicability in practical
applications and can meet diverse computing resource scheduling needs.

--- Page 23 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 23 of 30
(a) Total reward variation
(b) Latency variation
 (c) Energy consumption variation
Figure 9. Impact of the number of terminals on scheduling algorithm performance.
(3) The impact of task size range on algorithm performance. To investigate the impact
of task size range on algorithm performance, we fix the number of servers and terminals, as
well as the minimum task size at 0.1 MB. We set the maximum task size to [50 MB, 100 MB,
150 MB] and test the performance of the algorithm under these settings.
From the results shown in Figure 10, it can be observed that smaller maximum task
sizes generally lead to higher reward values in terms of overall performance, delay, and
energy consumption. This is because small tasks are easier to schedule across edge servers
and end devices. However, large tasks are also common in real-world scenarios. Table 6
presents the Pareto hypervolume under different maximum task size settings. The results
indicate that smaller task sizes tend to yield better Pareto hypervolume performance. Task
sizes are generated using an exponential distribution, which reflects realistic workload
patterns with mostly small tasks and occasional large ones. Upper and lower bounds are ap-
plied to ensure simulation stability and prevent extreme values that could cause numerical
issues or exceed system capabilities. The range of task sizes has a significant impact on both
resource scheduling strategies and key performance metrics such as latency and energy
consumption. A larger upper bound allows for testing under high-load conditions but may
result in increased delays and network pressure due to unprocessed tasks. On the other
hand, reducing the overall task size may support lightweight scheduling studies but can
increase scheduling frequency and overhead. In addition, the width of the task size interval
affects the training of reinforcement learning policies. An overly wide range may hinder
convergence, while a narrow range may limit the diversity of experimental outcomes.
Table 6. Comparison of Pareto volume under different maximum task sizes.
Task Maxsize 50 MB 100 MB 150 MB
Pareto Hypervolume 3609.25 3303.88 2252

--- Page 24 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 24 of 30
(a) Total reward variation
(b) Latency variation
 (c) Energy consumption variation
Figure 10. The impact of task size range on the performance of scheduling algorithms.
4.3. Evaluation on Real-Life Use Cases
To enhance the practical applicability and validity of our study, we construct a dedi-
cated hardware experimental platform in this section to closely emulate real-world deploy-
ment scenarios.
4.3.1. Experimental Environment
To construct the edge computing environment, we set up cloud servers, edge servers,
and end devices as computing nodes. These devices are all equipped with CPU chips but
differ in architecture. Additionally, some devices are further equipped with GPU and NPU
chips, resulting in heterogeneous computing resources.
For the workloads to be scheduled, each task is modeled as a directed acyclic graph
(DAG) composed of microservices, more realistically reflecting the pipeline execution
characteristics of modern edge applications. We designed three typical types of DAG
workflows, corresponding to AI-intensive, memory-intensive, and disk-intensive resource
demands. Specifically, we constructed 5 AI-intensive DAGs, 10 memory-intensive DAGs,
and 10 disk-intensive DAGs, with each category packaged into independently deployable
container images.
AI-intensive DAGs consist of multiple computation-heavy microservice stages. A
typical workflow includes data preprocessing, lightweight deep learning model inference
(e.g., quantized CNN or Transformer), and result postprocessing. Data tensors are passed
between stages via memory or low-latency message channels, primarily consuming floating-
point computational resources. These workflows impose high demands on the node’s AI
acceleration capabilities (e.g., GPU/NPU compute power) and memory bandwidth, while
exhibiting low dependence on disk I/O.
Memory-intensive DAGs contain a series of microservices that require loading and
processing large volumes of intermediate data at runtime (e.g., feature caching, real-time
aggregation). Intermediate results are passed between microservices through shared
memory, placing high demands on the node’s CPU memory capacity and bandwidth. The
DAG structure typically manifests as multi-stage serial or lightly parallel execution.

--- Page 25 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 25 of 30
Disk-intensive DAGs are composed of microservices that frequently read from and
write to local storage, such as chunked reading of large files, segment-by-segment pro-
cessing, and result persistence. Microservices exchange data via the file system, leading
to sustained high I/O load and imposing significant pressure on disk throughput and
I/O latency.
These three categories of DAG workflows collectively simulate the typical characteris-
tics of application structural complexity and diverse resource demands in realistic edge
scenarios, providing an effective benchmark for evaluating the performance of scheduling
algorithms in heterogeneous, dependency-aware environments.
4.3.2. Experimental Equipment Information
The experimental setup consists of three components: a cloud server, edge servers,
and end devices. The specific hardware configurations are as follows:
• Cloud Server: One server equipped with two Intel Xeon Gold 5318Y processors
(Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, CA, USA) with a base frequency of 2.1 GHz, six
NVIDIA A6000 GPUs (NVIDIA Corporation, Santa Clara, CA, USA), and 8 TB of hard
disk storage.
• Edge Servers: Five NVIDIA Jetson AGX Orin Developer Kits (NVIDIA Corporation,
Santa Clara, CA, USA). Each unit features a 12-core ARM Cortex-A78AE CPU (Arm
Limited, Cambridge, UK) running at 2.0 GHz, 32 GB of LPDDR5 memory, and an
integrated Ampere GPU capable of delivering up to 200 TOPS (INT8). Storage is
provided via 64 GB microSD cards.
• End Devices: Eight Raspberry Pi 5 boards (Raspberry Pi Ltd, Cambridge, UK). Each
board is equipped with a quad-core ARM Cortex-A76 CPU (Arm Limited, Cambridge,
UK) running at 2.4 GHz, 8 GB of RAM, and 64 GB of microSD card storage.
4.3.3. Evaluation Metrics
• Average delay: The arithmetic mean of the time interval from the moment a task is sub-
mitted by the cloud server to the system until its final execution result is successfully
returned to the cloud server, calculated over all successfully completed tasks. This
metric reflects the system’s overall responsiveness in processing mixed workloads
across heterogeneous edge resources.
• Average energy consumption: The average electrical energy consumed per task during
its execution is computed as the total energy consumed by all participating edge
servers and end devices throughout the entire batch execution period, divided by
the number of successfully completed tasks. Specifically, the energy consumption
of the five NVIDIA Jetson AGX Orin edge servers is measured using their built-in
power sensors to collect board-level power, which is then integrated over the task
execution duration. For the eight Raspberry Pi 5 end devices, a calibrated USB power
meter records voltage and current during operation; instantaneous power is calculated
and integrated to obtain the energy consumption. This metric measures the system’s
energy efficiency in completing individual tasks.
• Task completion rate: This is the percentage of submitted tasks that are successfully
completed and return results. A task is considered to have failed if it cannot return a
valid result due to reasons such as resource insufficiency or node failure. This metric
reflects the robustness and reliability of the scheduling policy in a real-world heteroge-
neous environment.
• Resource utilization: This is the comprehensive average utilization rate of CPU and
memory resources across all participating nodes (including edge servers and end
devices) during task execution. For Jetson nodes, CPU utilization and memory usage

--- Page 26 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 26 of 30
are obtained via tegrastats. For Raspberry Pi nodes, the corresponding metrics are col-
lected using the psutil library. The final value is a spatio-temporal average, taken over
all nodes and all sampling instants. This metric characterizes the system’s efficiency
in utilizing heterogeneous computing resources, with a higher value indicating less
resource waste.
4.3.4. Experimental Results
As shown in Table 7, we conducted experiments under the above conditions, and the
results are shown in the table below. The “±” following each value in the table represents the
mean ± standard deviation, calculated from 20 independent experimental runs, reflecting
both the typical performance and operational stability of the algorithms. The overall trend
clearly shows that the proposed MOOECN algorithm significantly outperforms all baseline
methods across all four core metrics. It achieves an average delay of 18.7 s, which is 7.9%
shorter than the second-best heuristic method and 51.6% shorter than the random strategy.
Its average energy consumption is as low as 135.6 J, demonstrating substantial energy
savings. Furthermore, MOOECN achieves a task completion rate of 93.2% and a resource
utilization rate of 72.4%. Notably, it exhibits the smallest standard deviations across all
metrics, indicating that its scheduling policy is not only superior in performance but also
highly stable and robust.
Table 7. Performance comparison of different scheduling algorithms.
Algorithm Average
Delay (s)
Average Energy
Consumption (J)
Task
Completion
Rate (%)
Resource
Utilization (%)
Random 38.6 ± 12.4 215.3 ± 48.7 68.2 ± 9.5 41.3 ± 14.2
Greedy 29.4 ± 9.8 182.6 ± 36.5 76.5 ± 7.8 52.7 ± 11.3
MAB 25.8 ± 8.2 168.4 ± 31.2 81.3 ± 6.4 58.9 ± 9.7
DQN 23.5 ± 7.1 156.8 ± 28.4 84.7 ± 5.6 63.2 ± 8.5
SAC 21.9 ± 6.5 149.2 ± 25.8 87.6 ± 4.3 66.8 ± 7.9
Heuristic 20.3 ± 5.9 142.5 ± 23.1 89.4 ± 3.7 69.1 ± 7.2
MOOECN 18 .7 ± 4.8 135 .6 ± 20.3 93 .2 ± 2.5 72 .4 ± 6.1
Bold values indicate the best results.
This advantage stems from MOOECN’s joint modeling of the heterogeneity in edge
environments and the dependency structure of DAG tasks: it can accurately identify AI-
intensive tasks and schedule them to Jetson edge servers equipped with NPU acceleration,
avoiding severe delays or failures on Raspberry Pi devices due to the lack of dedicated
computing power; meanwhile, through a resource-aware feasibility-filtering mechanism,
it effectively avoids real-world hardware bottlenecks such as out-of-memory errors and
microSD I/O timeouts. In contrast, methods like random and greedy, lacking global
environmental awareness, often misassign heavy workloads to resource-constrained end
devices, resulting in high latency, high energy consumption, and low task completion rates.
The experimental results fully validate the effectiveness of MOOECN in achieving multi-
objective co-optimization of latency, energy efficiency, reliability, and resource utilization
within a real cloud-controlled edge architecture.
4.4. Practical Deployment Challenges and Scalability Analysis
Although the proposed MOOECN scheduling algorithm has been validated in both
simulations and real-world heterogeneous hardware testbeds for its effectiveness in optimiz-
ing task latency and energy consumption, several key challenges remain when deploying it
in large-scale, highly dynamic edge computing networks.

--- Page 27 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 27 of 30
First, regarding computational overhead and scalability, the current algorithm employs
a centralized PPO-based policy for scheduling decisions. In our experimental testbed,
the per-decision latency is approximately 5–8 ms, which is significantly shorter than the
typical execution time of DAG tasks, making it practical for small- to medium-scale edge
clusters. However, in ultra-large-scale deployments (e.g., hundreds of edge nodes), the
dimensionality of the state space grows linearly with the number of nodes, potentially
leading to a significant increase in policy inference latency and even causing scheduling
bottlenecks. Future work could explore hierarchical scheduling architectures or policy
distillation techniques to improve scalability.
Second, concerning adaptability to dynamic environments, although our experiments
were conducted under controlled conditions with a fixed number of edge servers, the
proposed MOOECN framework is inherently designed to support dynamic edge environ-
ments. Specifically, the task arrival model follows a Poisson process, effectively simulating
the random and burst-like workloads found in real-world scenarios. The action space is
designed to be extendable—when a new edge node joins the network, its resource state
can simply be incorporated into the state vector, and the corresponding scheduling op-
tion can be added to the action space, without requiring any modification to the network
architecture or retraining of the policy. During training, we conducted ablation studies
using multiple configurations with varying numbers of edge nodes, enabling the policy to
adapt to system states of different scales and thereby achieving generalization capability to
changes in node count.
Finally, the proposed MOOECN framework demonstrates low decision-making over-
head and strong practicality in small- to medium-scale heterogeneous edge environments.
Moreover, its extendable action space and training strategy naturally accommodate dy-
namic node availability and Poisson-distributed task arrivals, laying a solid foundation for
deployment in large-scale, dynamic edge computing infrastructures.
5. Conclusions
This paper proposes a multi-objective optimization-based edge computing network
resource scheduling algorithm, MOOECN. In the context of microservice-based edge
computing networks, we introduce a hybrid dynamic–static computing power measure-
ment method. This method reduces the dimensionality of multi-dimensional computing
resources using the entropy weight method and combines dynamic computing power
metrics to form a comprehensive measurement of computing resources. This approach
enhances the matching between computing nodes and computing service demands. To ad-
dress the resource scheduling problem in edge computing networks, we model the resource
scheduling issue as an MOMDP . By leveraging multi-objective reinforcement learning
and proximal policy optimization algorithms, we achieve multi-objective optimization of
task transmission latency and energy consumption in dynamic environments. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art baseline models
and delivers superior performance improvements. In future work, we plan to develop
lightweight scheduling algorithms tailored to edge computing networks to further enhance
the efficiency of computing resource scheduling in such environments.
Author Contributions: W.L. conceived the initial idea, designed the overall framework, and was
responsible for writing and revising the manuscript. J.Z. and Y.F. implemented the algorithms,
conducted the simulation experiments, and analyzed the data. H.W. participated in the discussion
and optimization of the algorithm design. S.L. and X.Z. participated in the experimental design
and results discussion. Y.J. and X.L. supervised the project, secured funding, and reviewed and
revised key content of the manuscript. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of
the manuscript.

--- Page 28 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 28 of 30
Funding: This research was supported by the 2024 Sci-Tech Innovation Project of China Tower
(Nanjing) Science and Technology Innovation Center (grant number: CX-JS-20241114-0-16704), the
Jiangsu Key Development Planning Project (grant number: BE2023004-2), the National Key R&D
Program of China (grant number: 2023YFB2904000, 2023YFB2904004), and the Natural Science
Foundation of Jiangsu Province (Higher Education Institutions) (grant number: 20KJA520001).
Data Availability Statement: Dataset available on request from the authors.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Authors
Wenrui Liu, Yichao Fei and Hai Wang are employed by the company China Tower Corporation
Limited, who provided funding and teachnical support for the work. The funder had no role in
the design of the study; in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of data, in the writiing of the
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.
References
1. Liu, X.; Sun, C.; Zhou, M.; Wu, C.; Peng, B.; Li, P . Reinforcement Learning-Based Multislot Double-Threshold Spectrum Sensing
with Bayesian Fusion for Industrial Big Spectrum Data. IEEE T rans. Ind. Inform. 2021, 17, 3391–3400. [CrossRef]
2. Na, Z.; Li, B.; Liu, X.; Wang, J.; Zhang, M.; Liu, Y.; Mao, B. UAV-Based Wide-Area Internet of Things: An Integrated Deployment
Architecture. IEEE Netw. 2021, 35, 122–128. [CrossRef]
3. Zhou, W.; Xia, J.; Zhou, F.; Fan, L.; Lei, X.; Nallanathan, A.; Karagiannidis, G.K. Profit Maximization for Cache-Enabled Vehicular
Mobile Edge Computing Networks. IEEE T rans. Veh. T echnol.2023, 72, 13793–13798. [CrossRef]
4. Rajput, K.R.; Kulkarni, C.D.; Cho, B.; Wang, W.; Kim, I.K. EdgeFaaSBench: Benchmarking Edge Devices Using Serverless
Computing. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE International Conference on Edge Computing and Communications (EDGE),
Barcelona, Spain, 11–15 July 2022; pp. 93–103. [CrossRef]
5. Kiani, A.; Ansari, N. Edge Computing Aware NOMA for 5G Networks. IEEE Internet Things J. 2018, 5, 1299–1306. [CrossRef]
6. Du, Z.; Li, Z.; Duan, X.; Wang, J. Service Information Informing in Computing Aware Networking. In Proceedings of the 2022
International Conference on Service Science (ICSS), Shenzhen, China, 2–4 July 2022; pp. 125–130. [CrossRef]
7. Yao, H.; Duan, X.; Fu, Y. A computing-aware routing protocol for Computing Force Network. In Proceedings of the 2022
International Conference on Service Science (ICSS), Zhuhai, China, 13–15 May 2022; pp. 137–141. [CrossRef]
8. Wu, W.; Zhou, F.; Hu, R.Q.; Wang, B. Energy-Efficient Resource Allocation for Secure NOMA-Enabled Mobile Edge Computing
Networks. IEEE T rans. Commun. 2020, 68, 493–505. [CrossRef]
9. Chen, L.; Fan, L.; Lei, X.; Duong, T.Q.; Nallanathan, A.; Karagiannidis, G.K. Relay-Assisted Federated Edge Learning: Performance
Analysis and System Optimization. IEEE T rans. Commun. 2023, 71, 3387–3401. [CrossRef]
10. Zhao, R.; Zhu, F.; Tang, M.; He, L. Profit maximization in cache-aided intelligent computing networks. Phys. Commun. 2023,
58, 102065. [CrossRef]
11. Bertsekas, D. Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control: Volume I ; Athena Scientific: Nashua, NH, USA, 2012; Volume 4.
12. Assila, B.; Kobbane, A.; El Koutbi, M. A Cournot Economic Pricing Model for Caching Resource Management in 5G Wireless
Networks. In Proceedings of the 2018 14th International Wireless Communications & Mobile Computing Conference (IWCMC),
Limassol, Cyprus, 25–29 June 2018; pp. 1345–1350. [CrossRef]
13. Ye, Y.; Shi, L.; Chu, X.; Hu, R.Q.; Lu, G. Resource Allocation in Backscatter-Assisted Wireless Powered MEC Networks with
Limited MEC Computation Capacity. IEEE T rans. Wirel. Commun. 2022, 21, 10678–10694. [CrossRef]
14. Dinh, T.Q.; Tang, J.; La, Q.D.; Quek, T.Q.S. Offloading in Mobile Edge Computing: Task Allocation and Computational Frequency
Scaling. IEEE T rans. Commun. 2017, 65, 3571–3584. [CrossRef]
15. Zheng, T.; Wan, J.; Zhang, J.; Jiang, C. Deep reinforcement learning-based workload scheduling for edge computing. J. Cloud
Comput. 2022, 11, 3. [CrossRef]
16. Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Z.; Shi, Z.; Meng, L.; Zhang, Z. Online Scheduling Optimization for DAG-Based Requests Through Reinforcement
Learning in Collaboration Edge Networks. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 72985–72996. [CrossRef]
17. Tuli, S.; Ilager, S.; Ramamohanarao, K.; Buyya, R. Dynamic Scheduling for Stochastic Edge-Cloud Computing Environments
Using A3C Learning and Residual Recurrent Neural Networks. IEEE T rans. Mob. Comput. 2022, 21, 940–954. [CrossRef]
18. ETSI. Mobile Edge Computing (MEC); Framework and Reference Architecture ; Technical Report ETSI GS MEC 003 V3.1.1; European
Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI): Valbonne, France, 2022. Available online: https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_gs/
MEC/001_099/003/03.01.01_60/gs_MEC003v030101p.pdf (accessed on 5 October 2025).
19. Huawei. Computing Power Network (CPN) White Paper. Technical Report, 2023. Available online: https://e.huawei.com/en/
ict-insights (accessed on 5 October 2025).

--- Page 29 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 29 of 30
20. Amazon Web Services. AWS Panorama Developer Guide. 2023. Available online: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/panorama/
latest/dev/ (accessed on 5 October 2025).
21. Ren, J.; Lei, X.; Peng, Z.; Tang, X.; Dobre, O.A. RIS-Assisted Cooperative NOMA with SWIPT. IEEE Wirel. Commun. Lett. 2023,
12, 446–450. [CrossRef]
22. Lan, D.; Taherkordi, A.; Eliassen, F.; Liu, L.; Delbruel, S.; Dustdar, S.; Yang, Y. Task Partitioning and Orchestration on Heteroge-
neous Edge Platforms: The Case of Vision Applications. IEEE Internet Things J. 2022, 9, 7418–7432. [CrossRef]
23. Chen, Z.; Hu, J.; Chen, X.; Hu, J.; Zheng, X.; Min, G. Computation Offloading and Task Scheduling for DNN-Based Applications
in Cloud-Edge Computing. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 115537–115547. [CrossRef]
24. Pu, L.; Chen, X.; Xu, J.; Fu, X. D2D Fogging: An Energy-Efficient and Incentive-Aware Task Offloading Framework via
Network-assisted D2D Collaboration. IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun. 2016, 34, 3887–3901. [CrossRef]
25. Chen, X.; Jiao, L.; Li, W.; Fu, X. Efficient Multi-User Computation Offloading for Mobile-Edge Cloud Computing. IEEE/ACM
T rans. Netw.2016, 24, 2795–2808. [CrossRef]
26. Wang, X.; Ning, Z.; Guo, S. Multi-Agent Imitation Learning for Pervasive Edge Computing: A Decentralized Computation
Offloading Algorithm. IEEE T rans. Parallel Distrib. Syst. 2021, 32, 411–425. [CrossRef]
27. Chen, X.; Zhang, J.; Lin, B.; Chen, Z.; Wolter, K.; Min, G. Energy-Efficient Offloading for DNN-Based Smart IoT Systems in
Cloud-Edge Environments. IEEE T rans. Parallel Distrib. Syst. 2022, 33, 683–697. [CrossRef]
28. Gao, H.; Wang, X.; Wei, W.; Al-Dulaimi, A.; Xu, Y. Com-DDPG: Task Offloading Based on Multiagent Reinforcement Learning
for Information-Communication-Enhanced Mobile Edge Computing in the Internet of Vehicles. IEEE T rans. Veh. T echnol.2024,
73, 348–361. [CrossRef]
29. Peng, Q.; Wu, C.; Xia, Y.; Ma, Y.; Wang, X.; Jiang, N. DoSRA: A Decentralized Approach to Online Edge Task Scheduling and
Resource Allocation. IEEE Internet Things J. 2022, 9, 4677–4692. [CrossRef]
30. Phuc, L.H.; Phan, L.A.; Kim, T. Traffic-Aware Horizontal Pod Autoscaler in Kubernetes-Based Edge Computing Infrastructure.
IEEE Access 2022, 10, 18966–18977. [CrossRef]
31. Liu, T.; Ni, S.; Li, X.; Zhu, Y.; Kong, L.; Yang, Y. Deep Reinforcement Learning Based Approach for Online Service Placement and
Computation Resource Allocation in Edge Computing. IEEE T rans. Mob. Comput. 2023, 22, 3870–3881. [CrossRef]
32. Zhou, H.; Jiang, K.; Liu, X.; Li, X.; Leung, V .C.M. Deep Reinforcement Learning for Energy-Efficient Computation Offloading in
Mobile-Edge Computing. IEEE Internet Things J. 2022, 9, 1517–1530. [CrossRef]
33. Yang, Y.; Wang, S. EdgeOPT: A competitive algorithm for online parallel task scheduling with latency guarantee in mobile edge
computing. IEEE T rans. Commun. 2024, 72, 7077–7092. [CrossRef]
34. Khoshvaght, P .; Haider, A.; Rahmani, A.M.; Rajabi, S.; Gharehchopogh, F.S.; Lansky , J.; Hosseinzadeh, M. A Self-Supervised Deep
Reinforcement Learning for Zero-Shot Task Scheduling in Mobile Edge Computing Environments.Ad Hoc Netw. 2025, 178, 103977.
[CrossRef]
35. Long, L.; Liu, Z.; Shen, J.; Jiang, Y. SecDS: A security-aware DAG task scheduling strategy for edge computing. Future Gener.
Comput. Syst. 2025, 166, 107627. [CrossRef]
36. Xie, R.; Feng, L.; Tang, Q.; Zhu, H.; Huang, T.; Zhang, R.; Yu, F.R.; Xiong, Z. Priority-aware task scheduling in computing power
network-enabled edge computing systems. IEEE T rans. Netw. Sci. Eng. 2025, 12, 3191–3205. [CrossRef]
37. Mokhtari, A.; Hossen, M.A.; Jamshidi, P .; Salehi, M.A. FELARE: Fair Scheduling of Machine Learning Tasks on Heterogeneous
Edge Systems. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE 15th International Conference on Cloud Computing (CLOUD), Barcelona, Spain,
10–16 July 2022; pp. 459–468. [CrossRef]
38. Zhang, M.; Cao, J.; Yang, L.; Zhang, L.; Sahni, Y.; Jiang, S. ENTS: An Edge-native Task Scheduling System for Collaborative Edge
Computing. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE/ACM 7th Symposium on Edge Computing (SEC), Seattle, WA, USA, 5–8 December
2022; pp. 149–161. [CrossRef]
39. Ma, T.; Wang, M.; Zhao, W. Task scheduling considering multiple constraints in mobile edge computing. In Proceedings of the
2021 International Conference on Intelligent Computing, Automation and Systems (ICICAS), Chongqing, China, 29–31 December
2021; pp. 43–47. [CrossRef]
40. Gong, Q.; Xia, Y.; Zou, J.; Hou, Z.; Liu, Y. Enhancing Dynamic Constrained Multi-Objective Optimization with Multi-Centers
Based Prediction. IEEE T rans. Evol. Comput. 2025. [CrossRef]
41. Zheng, X.L.; Wang, L. A Collaborative Multiobjective Fruit Fly Optimization Algorithm for the Resource Constrained Unrelated
Parallel Machine Green Scheduling Problem. IEEE T rans. Syst. Man Cybern. Syst. 2018, 48, 790–800. [CrossRef]
42. Wang, F.; Sun, J.; Gan, X.; Gong, D.; Wang, G.; Guo, Y. A Dynamic Interval Multi-Objective Evolutionary Algorithm Based on
Multi-Task Learning and Inverse Mapping. IEEE T rans. Evol. Comput. 2025. [CrossRef]
43. Li, J.; Shang, Y.; Qin, M.; Yang, Q.; Cheng, N.; Gao, W.; Kwak, K.S. Multiobjective Oriented Task Scheduling in Heterogeneous
Mobile Edge Computing Networks. IEEE T rans. Veh. T echnol.2022, 71, 8955–8966. [CrossRef]
44. Pan, L.; Liu, X.; Jia, Z.; Xu, J.; Li, X. A Multi-Objective Clustering Evolutionary Algorithm for Multi-Workflow Computation
Offloading in Mobile Edge Computing. IEEE T rans. Cloud Comput. 2023, 11, 1334–1351. [CrossRef]

--- Page 30 ---
Appl. Sci. 2025, 15, 10837 30 of 30
45. Li, L.; Qiu, Q.; Xiao, Z.; Lin, Q.; Gu, J.; Ming, Z. A Two-Stage Hybrid Multi-Objective Optimization Evolutionary Algorithm for
Computing Offloading in Sustainable Edge Computing. IEEE T rans. Consum. Electron. 2024, 70, 735–746. [CrossRef]
46. Al-Bakhrani, A.A.; Li, M.; Obaidat, M.S.; Amran, G.A. MOALF-UAV-MEC: Adaptive Multiobjective Optimization for UAV-
Assisted Mobile Edge Computing in Dynamic IoT Environments. IEEE Internet Things J. 2025, 12, 20736–20756. [CrossRef]
47. Qiu, Q.; Ye, Y.; Li, L.; Xiao, Z.; Lin, Q.; Ming, Z. Joint computation offloading and service caching in Vehicular Edge Computing
via a dynamic coevolutionary multiobjective optimization algorithm. Expert Syst. Appl. 2025, 284, 127821. [CrossRef]
48. Sunny, A. Joint Scheduling and Sensing Allocation in Energy Harvesting Sensor Networks with Fusion Centers. IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun. 2016, 34, 3577–3589. [CrossRef]
49. Alipour-Fanid, A.; Dabaghchian, M.; Arora, R.; Zeng, K. Multiuser Scheduling in Centralized Cognitive Radio Networks: A
Multi-Armed Bandit Approach. IEEE T rans. Cogn. Commun. Netw. 2022, 8, 1074–1091. [CrossRef]
50. Nandhakumar, A.R.; Baranwal, A.; Choudhary, P .; Golec, M.; Gill, S.S. EdgeAISim: A toolkit for simulation and modelling of AI
models in edge computing environments. Meas. Sens. 2024, 31, 100939. [CrossRef]
51. Wang, Z.Y.; Pan, Q.K.; Gao, L.; Jing, X.L.; Sun, Q. A cooperative iterated greedy algorithm for the distributed flowshop group
robust scheduling problem with uncertain processing times. Swarm Evol. Comput. 2023, 79, 101320. [CrossRef]
52. Burra, R.; Singh, C.; Kuri, J. Service scheduling for random requests with fixed waiting costs. Perform. Eval. 2022, 155, 102297.
[CrossRef]
53. Liu, T.; Tang, L.; Wang, W.; Chen, Q.; Zeng, X. Digital-Twin-Assisted Task Offloading Based on Edge Collaboration in the Digital
Twin Edge Network. IEEE Internet Things J. 2022, 9, 1427–1444. [CrossRef]
54. Hu, M.; Zhou, M.; Zhang, Z.; Zhang, L.; Li, Y. A novel disjunctive-graph-based meta-heuristic approach for multi-objective
resource-constrained project scheduling problem with multi-skilled staff. Swarm Evol. Comput. 2025, 95, 101939. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
