--- Page 1 ---
Academic Editor: Jeongyeup Paek
Received: 13 May 2026
Revised: 8 July 2026
Accepted: 15 July 2026
Published: 6 August 2026
Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license.
Article
Short-Term Aggregated Residential Load Forecasting of
Low-Voltage Distribution Networks Based on Graph Neural
Networks and K-Means Clustering
Fujia Han, Ji Qiao *
 , Hao Yu and Zibo Wang
Department of Artificial Intelligence Research, China Electric Power Research Institute Co., Ltd.,
Beijing 100192, China; hanfujia@epri.sgcc.com.cn (F.H.); yuhao9663@163.com (H.Y.);
wangzibo@epri.sgcc.com.cn (Z.W.)
* Correspondence: qiaoji@epri.sgcc.com.cn
Abstract
With the rapid development and widespread deployment of advanced metering infrastruc-
tures, massive amounts of fine-grained data about aggregated residential load have been
collected by power network operators, further helping improve forecasting accuracy. Accu-
rate aggregated residential load forecasting plays an increasingly important role in various
interactions between power networks and electricity customers as well as in maintaining
the continuous balance between electricity supply and demand. However, most existing
short-term aggregated residential load forecasting methods only take into consideration
the temporal correlation of historical load profiles, ignoring the potential spatial correla-
tion between electricity consumption behaviors of adjacent residential customers. Thus,
to fill this gap, this paper proposes a short-term aggregated residential load forecasting
method based on graph neural networks and K-means clustering. Specifically, K-means
clustering is firstly used to divide residential customers into different groups according to
the similarity of their electricity consumption behaviors. Then, the spatial–temporal graph
series for aggregated residential load forecasting is constructed, based on the number of
groups of residential customers, the aggregated historical load profile of each group of
residential customers, and the correlation between the aggregated historical load profiles of
different groups of residential customers. Finally, adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous
graph convolutional networks are applied to perform short-term aggregated residential
load forecasting. The proposed method is evaluated on a real-life Irish residential load
dataset, and the experimental results demonstrate that it can improve forecasting accuracy
significantly in comparison with a number of traditional benchmark methods.
Keywords: advanced metering infrastructures; residential load forecasting; temporal
correlation; spatial correlation; graph neural networks; K-means clustering; spatial–
temporal graph
1. Introduction
As the modern power network is gradually transitioning towards the smart grid
with growing penetration of renewable energy generation, especially distributed genera-
tion, aggregated residential load forecasting is playing an increasingly important role in
interactions between power network operators and residential customers, efficient and
cost-effective network operations, and household energy consumption optimizations [1]. In
addition, as load aggregators and virtual power plants have constantly been introduced into
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 2 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 2 of 19
power distribution networks, a variety of electricity customers are capable of participating
in electricity market transactions and interactions more proactively. Thus, as an important
part of the transaction and interaction process, aggregated residential load forecasting is
the basic prerequisite for pricing decisions in the electricity market. However, due to the
complicated influences of weather conditions and electricity prices, as well as personalized
electricity consumption habits of residential customers, electricity consumption patterns of
residential customers have high volatility and uncertainty, therefore posing a huge chal-
lenge to aggregated residential load forecasting [2,3]. With the widespread deployment of
advanced metering infrastructures across the modern power network, for example, smart
meters, a huge amount of monitoring data regarding the electricity consumption behaviors
of residential customers has been generated, thereby significantly facilitating aggregated
residential load forecasting.
At present, a number of researchers have primarily focused on system-level, substation-
level, and feeder-level load forecasting methods based on artificial intelligence technologies,
such as machine learning and deep learning [ 4–13]. Specifically, machine learning algo-
rithms include support vector regression, random forest, and artificial neural networks,
while deep learning algorithms include recurrent neural networks, convolutional neural
networks, and deep feed-forward neural networks [14,15]. In general, due to the relatively
weak volatility and the comparatively obvious periodicity and seasonality of system-level,
substation-level, and feeder-level loads, a majority of existing system-level, substation-
level, and feeder-level load forecasting methods based on artificial intelligence technologies
are capable of obtaining high forecasting accuracy. In particular, during recent years, an
increasing number of researchers have applied deep learning algorithms to system-level,
substation-level, and feeder-level load forecasting in order to improve forecasting accu-
racy [16,17]. The main reason for this is that compared to machine learning algorithms,
deep learning algorithms have the superior ability of mining complicated non-linear rela-
tionships in a large amount of data, therefore significantly enhancing the expression effect
regarding sample distribution patterns.
By contrast, only a few efforts have been made towards aggregated residential load
forecasting in recent years [18–26]. Currently , aggregated residential load forecasting methods
are generally categorized into bottom-up forecasting methods and top-down forecasting
methods. However, most existing aggregated residential load forecasting methods have
focused on mining the temporal correlation of residential load, but have ignored the potential
correlation among electricity consumption behaviors of residential customers, thus limiting
further improvement of the forecasting accuracy . For instance, residential customers in the
same area tend to share the same influence factors, including geographical space, weather
conditions, holiday information, and electricity price policies. As a result, there is commonly a
certain degree of potential correlation among electricity consumption behaviors of residential
customers. In recent years, graph neural networks, as an emerging type of neural network,
can effectively learn graphs and have the superior ability to simultaneously mine the feature
information within nodes and the correlation information among nodes. So far, graph neural
networks have been widely applied to the research fields of solar power forecasting, wind
power forecasting, and traffic forecasting and are thereby regarded as a new solution to
aggregated residential load forecasting [27–30].
Thus, in order to solve the above issue, this paper presents a novel short-term aggre-
gated residential load forecasting method, which is capable of taking into consideration
both the temporal correlation of residential load and the spatial correlation between elec-
tricity consumption behaviors of adjacent residential customers. The main contributions of
this paper are summarized as follows:
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 3 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 3 of 19
• A short-term aggregated residential load forecasting method is proposed to further
improve the forecasting accuracy, based on an effective combination of graph neural
networks and K-means clustering. To be specific, graph neural networks are employed
in order to make full use of the spatial–temporal correlation in aggregated residential
load forecasting.
• Two different spatial–temporal graph series constructing methods for short-term
aggregated residential load forecasting are developed based on the Pearson correlation
coefficient. More specifically, in the spatial–temporal graph series, the node is utilized
to express the temporal correlation of residential load, while the edge is utilized to
express the spatial correlation between electricity consumption behaviors of adjacent
residential customers.
• The proposed short-term aggregated residential load forecasting method is evaluated
and compared with several benchmark methods on a real-life Irish residential load
dataset, and the experimental results show that it can obtain the higher forecasting
accuracy, in terms of root mean square error (RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE),
as well as mean absolute percentage error (MAPE).
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reports a comprehensive
literature review on load forecasting. Section 3 elaborates adaptive spatial–temporal
synchronous graph convolutional networks (ASTSGCNs) as well as K-means clustering
and further details the integration of graph neural networks with K-means clustering for
short-term aggregated residential load forecasting. In Section 4, the presented aggregated
residential load forecasting method is evaluated on a real-life Irish residential load dataset.
Finally, the conclusions are drawn and the future work is pointed out in Section 5.
2. Related Work
Currently, numerous research works have already been presented in the field of system-
level, substation-level, and feeder-level load forecasting [4–13]. For instance, Liu et al. [4]
proposed a distributed system-level load forecasting method based on local weather in-
formation. It firstly partitions the bulk power system into some subnets based on local
weather information, and then establishes separate forecasting models for subnets from a
load forecasting model base, finally developing a system-level load forecasting model to
aggregate local load forecasts. Another short-term system-level load forecasting method
based on modified deep residual networks was presented in [6]. This method integrates
domain knowledge to improve its forecasting performance and utilizes a two-stage en-
semble strategy to enhance its generalization capability. Similarly, Li et al. [8] designed a
novel wavelet-based ensemble method for short-term system-level load forecasting with
hybrid neural networks and feature selection for increased forecasting performance. In
addition, Rafiei et al. [10] developed a hybrid method for probabilistic system-level load
forecasting, including a generalized extreme learning machine for training an improved
wavelet neural network, wavelet preprocessing and bootstrapping. This method takes data
noise uncertainties into account while outputting the load probabilistic interval. In [ 11],
an efficient hierarchical method for short-term load forecasting at the distribution level
was proposed. Specifically, the load of the root node at any user-defined subtree is firstly
forecasted by a wavelet neural network with appropriate inputs, and child nodes catego-
rized as “regular” and “irregular” based on load pattern similarities are then forecasted
separately. This method is capable of capturing load characteristics of nodes at different
levels, and it takes advantage of pattern similarities between a parent node and its child
nodes. Cao et al. [12] presented a hybrid ensemble deep learning method for substation-
level load forecasting, which effectively combines multiple separate ensemble strategies
and the K nearest neighbor classification algorithm to adaptively determine the weight
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 4 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 4 of 19
of each model. Moreover, Dong et al. [13] developed a long-term distribution feeder load
forecasting method based on sequence prediction, which is able to seamlessly integrate
top-down, bottom-up, and sequential information hidden in multi-year data.
To sum up, as system-level, substation-level, or feeder-level load tends to be compara-
tively smooth and stable, it is quite easy to obtain high forecasting accuracy on system-level,
substation-level, or feeder-level load forecasting, regardless of applying traditional machine
learning or deep learning methods.
By contrast, there have been only a small number of research works in the area of
aggregated residential load forecasting during recent years [18–26]. At present, artificial
intelligence-based aggregated residential load forecasting methods can be generally clas-
sified as bottom-up and top-down. To be specific, bottom-up forecasting methods firstly
aggregate the load of each individual residential customer and then they model and pre-
dict the aggregated load of all residential customers. Ge et al. [18] proposed a short-term
aggregated residential load forecasting method combining the maximum information coef-
ficient, factor analysis, gray wolf optimization, and generalized regression neural networks.
Within this method, to screen and decrease the dimension of the multiple-input features,
the maximum information coefficient is firstly used to quantify the non-linear correlation
between the load and input features, and to eliminate the ineffective features, and then
factor analysis is used to reduce the dimension of the screened input features on the premise
of preserving the main information of input features. Afrasiabi et al. [19] presented a direct
method for conditional probability density forecasting of aggregated residential load based
on a deep mixture network, which can provide comprehensive information about future
uncertainties of aggregated residential load. Likewise, a novel online ensemble learning
method for aggregated residential load forecasting was developed by combining batch and
online learning in [20]. Compared to bottom-up forecasting methods, top-down forecasting
methods firstly divide all residential customers into different groups and then predict
the load of each group of residential customers respectively, finally integrating the load
forecasting result of each group of residential customers to obtain the predicted aggregated
load of all residential customers. For example, Park et al. [ 22] designed a day-ahead ag-
gregated residential load forecasting scheme based on characteristic load decomposition.
This scheme firstly applies a hybrid strategy to obtain separate forecasts for decomposed
characteristic load profiles, and then sums them up to predict the aggregated residential
load. In [24], a bottom-up aggregated residential load forecasting method was proposed
on the basis of hierarchical clustering. To be specific, this method uses random forest to
obtain the forecast of each subset of residential customers and then sums up with a convex
expert aggregation strategy to predict the aggregated residential load. Also, Wang et al. [25]
presented an ensemble forecasting method for aggregated residential load, which is capable
of producing multiple forecasts by different groupings of subprofiles and provides the final
forecast based on a set of optimal weights.
Although a variety of forecasting methods for aggregated residential load have been
developed, they are unable to take full advantage of both the temporal correlation of
residential load and the potential correlation among electricity consumption behaviors of
residential customers, thus limiting further improvement of the forecasting accuracy. Our
proposed method is capable of bridging the gap by integrating graph neural networks
with K-means clustering in order to mine the spatial–temporal correlation in aggregated
residential load forecasting effectively.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 5 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 5 of 19
3. Methodology
3.1. Adaptive Spatial–T emporal Synchronous Graph Convolutional Network
3.1.1. Localized Spatial–Temporal Graph
A spatial graph represents the relationship between different nodes in the spatial
dimension, generally defined as:
G = (V, E, A) (1)
where the spatial graph G consists of a set of nodes V and a set of edges E, N = |V| is
the number of nodes in the spatial graph, and A ∈ RN×N is the adjacency matrix of the
spatial graph, which quantifies the relationship between nodes. As a novel type of graph
neural network, ASTSGCNs are capable to simultaneously mine the temporal and spatial
correlations of localized spatial–temporal graphs.
Figure 1 shows the localized spatial–temporal graph and its adjacency matrix. A
localized spatial–temporal graph is generally constructed based on three continuous spatial
graphs, which is able to connect each node with itself at the previous and next time steps.
The intrinsic correlation of the localized spatial–temporal graph is represented by the
adjacency matrix A′ ∈ R3N×3N. If two nodes connect with each other in the localized
spatial–temporal graph, the corresponding value in the adjacency matrix is set as one. The
adjacency matrix of the localized spatial–temporal graph is formulated as follows [31]:
A′[i, j] =
(
1, if vi connects to vj
0, otherwise (2)
where A′[i, j] is the jth element of the ith row in the adjacency matrix of the localized
spatial–temporal graph, and vi is the node i in the localized spatial–temporal graph. The
adjacency matrix A′ contains 3N nodes. Ati is the adjacency matrix of the spatial graph at
the time step ti, and Ati→tj denotes the connection between each node and itself at the time
step ti and the time step tj.
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the localized spatial–temporal graph and its adjacency matrix.
3.1.2. Adaptive Adjacency Matrix
For adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional networks, the ad-
jacency matrix A′ of the localized spatial–temporal graph determines the weights of the
aggregation of the graph convolutional operation. Thus, in order to enhance the aggregat-
ing ability of the graph convolutional operation, a learnable mask matrix Wmask ∈ R3N×3N
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 6 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 6 of 19
is added to improve the adjacency matrix A′ of the localized spatial–temporal graph. To be
specific, the adaptive adjacency matrix A′mask ∈ R3N×3N of the localized spatial–temporal
graph is obtained by the element-wise product betweenWmask and A′, as shown below [31]:
A′
mask = A′ ⊗ Wmask ∈ R3N×3N (3)
The elements of the learnable mask matrix Wmask can be initialized in the following
way [31]:
Wmask [i, j] =
(
1, A′[i, j] ̸= 0
0, A′[i, j] =0 (4)
where Wmask [i, j] is the jth element of the ith row in the learnable mask matrix.
3.1.3. Spatial–Temporal Embedding
As the input of ASTSGCNs, the spatial–temporal graph series XG is shown as
follows [31]:
XG = (Xt−T+1
G , Xt−T+2
G , . . . , Xt
G) ∈ RN×C×T (5)
where Xt
G ∈ RN×C is the graph signal matrix representing the observations of the spatial
graph G at the time step t, T is the length of the spatial–temporal graph series, and C is the
number of attribute features.
In order to enhance the ability of ASTSGCNs to mine the spatial–temporal correlation,
a learnable temporal embedding matrix Temb ∈ RC×T and a learnable spatial embedding
matrix Semb ∈ RN×C are created respectively through random initialization. After the
training process is completed, these two embedding matrices will contain the necessary
temporal and spatial information to help ASTSGCNs capture the spatial–temporal correla-
tion effectively. They are added to the spatial–temporal graph series XG with the broadcast
operation to obtain the new representation XG+temb +semb of the spatial–temporal graph
series as follows [31]:
XG+temb +semb = XG + Temb + Semb ∈ RN×C×T (6)
3.1.4. Adaptive Spatial–Temporal Synchronous Graph Convolutional Layer
An adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional layer (ASTSGCL)
normally consists of multiple adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional
modules (ASTSGCMs), which are capable of capturing the localized spatial–temporal
correlation. Specifically, an ASTSGCM is composed of a group of graph convolutional
operations aggregating the features of each node with its neighbors at adjacent time steps.
The input of the graph convolutional operation is the graph signal matrix of the localized
spatial–temporal graph. Thus, the graph convolutional operation can be formulated as
follows [31]:
h(l) = σ(A′
mask h(l−1)W + b) ∈ R3N×C(l)
(7)
where h(l−1) ∈ R3N×C(l−1)
is the input of the lth graph convolutional layer, W ∈ RC(l−1)×C(l)
and b ∈ RC(l)
are the learnable parameters of the lth graph convolutional layer, C(l−1) and
C(l) are the numbers of features of the input and the output of the lth graph convolutional
layer respectively, and σ is the activation function, which is normally represented by ReLU
as follows:
ReLU(x) =
(
0, x < 0
x, x ≥ 0 (8)
In order to extract the long-range spatial–temporal features of the entire spatial–
temporal graph series, a sliding window is used to cut out the spatial–temporal graph
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 7 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 7 of 19
series into different periods sequentially. The schematic diagram of the sliding window
is shown in Figure 2. Multiple ASTSGCMs are utilized to model different periods so
that each ASTSGCM can focus on capturing the localized spatial–temporal correlation
in the corresponding localized spatial–temporal graph. To be specific, spatial–temporal
embeddings for the ASTSGCL are added at first. Then, the sliding window in the ASTSGCL
is used to cut out the entire spatial–temporal graph series intoT-2 localized spatial–temporal
graphs. Finally, the ASTSGCL deploys T-2 ASTSGCMs on T-2 localized spatial–temporal
graphs to capture the localized spatial–temporal correlation in these T-2 localized spatial–
temporal graphs. In addition, the complex spatial–temporal correlation of the spatial–
temporal graph series can be captured more effectively by stacking multiple ASTSGCLs,
therefore enabling each node to contain the localized spatial–temporal correlation centered
by itself.
Figure 2. Schematic diagram of the sliding window.
3.1.5. ASTSGCN Structure
The structure of adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional networks
is shown in Figure 3. ASTSGCNs take historical spatial–temporal graph series as input and
output future spatial–temporal graph series. Firstly, the historical spatial–temporal graph
series is transformed from the low-dimensional feature space to the high-dimensional
feature space through a fully connected layer. Then, stacked multiple ASTSGCLs with
spatial–temporal embeddings capture the localized spatial–temporal correlation in the
spatial–temporal graph series. Finally, the output of the stacked multiple ASTSGCLs is
mapped to the future spatial–temporal graph series through two fully connected layers.
3.2. K-Means Clustering
Clustering is a common unsupervised learning technique in machine learning, which
is intended for identifying the clusters of similar data samples in a dataset. Although
numerous clustering methods have been developed, K-means clustering is still one of the
most popular clustering methods in many fields due to its simplicity and robustness. As a
result, K-means clustering is adopted to cluster residential load profiles in this paper.
Given a dataset X = [x1, x2, x3, · · ·, xn] ∈ Rp×n, the goal of K-means clustering
is to partition the data into K clusters so that µk ∈ Rp is the prototype associated with
the kth cluster for k = 1, 2, 3, · · ·, K. A set of binary indicator variables cik ∈ {0, 1 } is
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 8 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 8 of 19
also introduced to represent the assignments, where ci = [ci1, ci2, ci3, · · ·, ciK ]T is the kth
canonical basis vector in RK if and only if xi belongs to the kth cluster.
Let µ = {µk}K
k=1 be the cluster centers and c = {ci}n
i=1 be the assignments of data
samples. K-means clustering attempts to minimize the sum of the squared Euclidean
distances of all the data samples to their assigned clusters [32]:
f (c, µ) =∑
n
i=1 ∑
K
k=1 cik∥xi − µk∥
2
2 (9)
where the objective function f (c, µ) is minimized by respectively updating the assignments
c and the cluster centers µ in an iterative way. The update procedure is formulated as
follows [32]:
Step 1: Minimize f (c, µ) over c while keeping µ fixed:
∀i = 1, 2, 3, · · ·, n: cik =
(
1 k = argminj
xi − µj
2
2
0 otherwise (10)
Step 2: Minimize f (c, µ) over µ while keeping c fixed:
∀k = 1, 2, 3, · · ·, K: µk = 1
nk
∑
xi∈Sk
xi (11)
where Sk denotes the set of the data samples assigned to the kth cluster, and nk denotes the
number of the data samples Sk contains.
In addition, in order to improve the performance of K-means clustering, the K-means++
algorithm is applied to initialize the cluster centers. Hence, the detailed steps of K-means
clustering are presented in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1: K-means Clustering
Input: dataset X, number of clusters K
Output: cluster centers µ, assignments of data samples c
1 Begin
2 Initialize the K cluster centers by the K-means++ algorithm
3 Repeat
4 Assign each data sample to the closest cluster center using (10)
5 Update each cluster center using (11)
6 Until no cluster members are reassigned to the new clusters or the decrease in the
objective function f (c, µ) is within the predefined limit
7 Terminate
3.3. Short-T erm Aggregated Residential Load Forecasting Based on Graph Neural Networks and
K-Means Clustering
3.3.1. Spatial–Temporal Graph Series for Short-Term Aggregated Residential Load Forecasting
Constructing the spatial–temporal graph series is the fundamental prerequisite for
short-term aggregated residential load forecasting based on graph neural networks. It
mainly consists of the following two steps.
Firstly, the node of the spatial graph of the spatial–temporal graph series for short-term
aggregated residential load forecasting is constructed. As for a large number of residential
customers, if each individual residential customer is regarded as a node of the spatial graph,
it may cause a series of problems, such as high structural complexity of the spatial graph,
excessive computation of the graph neural network, and serious forecasting instability due
to significantly random electricity consumption behaviors of residential customers. Hence,
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 9 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 9 of 19
based on the similarity of electricity consumption behaviors within residential customers,
this paper utilizes K-means clustering to group the historical load profiles of all residential
customers. Each group of residential customers is regarded as a node of the spatial graph,
and the aggregated historical load profile of each group of residential customers is regarded
as the features of the corresponding node at different time steps, therefore effectively
enhancing the ability of the graph neural network to capture the electricity consumption
pattern of each group of residential customers.
Figure 3. Structure of adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional networks.
Secondly, the edge of the spatial graph of the spatial–temporal graph series for short-
term aggregated residential load forecasting is constructed, which represents the element
of the adjacency matrix of the spatial graph. This paper proposes two different methods
for constructing the adjacency matrix of the spatial graph, as shown in Figure 4. The first
method for constructing the adjacency matrix is shown in Figure 4a. To be specific, if the
correlation coefficient between the features of the two nodes in the spatial graph is not less
than a certain threshold, it is considered that there is a connection relationship between the
two nodes, and the corresponding element of the adjacency matrix is set as one. Otherwise,
it is considered that there is no connection relationship between the two nodes, and the
corresponding element of the adjacency matrix is set as zero. The correlation coefficient
and each element of the adjacency matrix constructed by the first method are formulated
as follows:
ρ(Xi, Xj) =cov(Xi, Xj)
σXiσXj
(12)
A[i, j] =
(
1, ρ(Xi, Xj) ≥ ζ
0, ρ(Xi, Xj) < ζ (13)
where ρ(Xi, Xj) is the Pearson correlation coefficient between the feature Xi of the node i
and the feature Xj of the node j, cov(Xi, Xj) is the covariance of Xi and Xj, σXi and σXj are
the standard deviations of Xi and Xj respectively, A[i, j] is the jth element of the ith row in
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 10 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 10 of 19
the adjacency matrix of the spatial graph, and ζ is the predefined threshold, which is set as
0.9 in this paper.
Figure 4. Schematic diagram of the adjacency matrices constructed by two different methods.
The second method for constructing the adjacency matrix is shown in Figure 4b.
Specifically, in order to precisely quantify the correlation between the two nodes in the
spatial graph, the corresponding element of the adjacency matrix is set as the correlation
coefficient between the features of the two nodes. Thus, each element of the adjacency
matrix constructed by the second method is formulated as follows:
A[i, j] =ρ(Xi, Xj) (14)
3.3.2. Implementation Process
Figure 5 shows the overall implementation process of short-term aggregated residen-
tial load forecasting based on graph neural networks and K-means clustering. Firstly, based
on the similarity of electricity consumption behaviors of residential customers, K-means
clustering is applied to divide the historical load profiles of all residential customers into
groups. Secondly, according to the result of K-means clustering, the spatial–temporal
graph series for short-term aggregated residential load forecasting is constructed. Then, an
ASTSGCN is trained on the basis of the constructed spatial–temporal graph series in order
to capture the electricity consumption pattern of each group of residential customers and
forecast the load of each group of residential customers at the next time step. Finally, the
load forecast of each group of residential customers is aggregated to obtain the total load
forecast of all residential customers at the next time step.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 11 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 11 of 19
Figure 5. Flow chart of short-term aggregated residential load forecasting based on graph neural
networks and K-means clustering.
4. Results and Discussion
4.1. Dataset Description
The dataset used in this paper is from the Smart Metering Electricity Customer Be-
haviour Trials initiated by Commission for Energy Regulation in Ireland [32]. The trials
lasted from July 2009 to December 2010 with over 5000 Irish residential customers and
small and medium enterprises participating. The sampling frequency of the dataset is once
every half an hour. In this paper, 3639 residential customers with a complete record are
selected as the experiment dataset. The whole dataset is chronologically divided into a
training dataset, a validation dataset, and a test dataset with a ratio of 7:2:1. The training
dataset and the validation dataset are used for training, while the test dataset is used for
evaluation. Furthermore, the following normalization method is used for the training
dataset, the validation dataset, and the test dataset respectively during data preprocessing:
ˆx = x − mean(Xdataset )
std(Xdataset ) (15)
where ˆx is the normalized value of the original load x of the residential customer,
mean(Xdataset ) and std(Xdataset ) are the mean and the standard deviation of the dataset
Xdataset respectively.
4.2. Performance Evaluation Metrics
This paper utilizes mean absolute percentage error (MAPE), mean absolute error
(MAE), and root mean squared error (RMSE) as evaluation metrics to assess the forecasting
performance of different methods. These evaluation metrics are formulated as follows:
MAPE = 1
N
N
∑
i=1

ˆyi − yi
yi
×100% (16)
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 12 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 12 of 19
MAE = 1
N
N
∑
i=1
| ˆyi − yi| (17)
RMSE =
vuut 1
N
N
∑
i=1
( ˆyi − yi)2 (18)
where yi is the real value of the load, ˆyi is the corresponding forecasted value of the load,
and N is the number of samples of the test dataset.
4.3. Experiment Setup
This paper uses PyTorch 2.5.0 for model programming and conducts case studies
on a standard desktop with an Intel Core i9-7920X CPU running at 2.90 GHz and 16 GB
of RAM. As this paper is not focused on improving the forecasting performance via the
optimal network structure, hyperparameter fine-tuning is not conducted on the ASTSGCN
structure here. In addition, it is noted that each time step in the experiment is half an
hour, and the input of the forecasting task of this paper is based on the load profiles of
all residential customers at the previous time steps and its corresponding output is the
forecasted aggregated residential load at the next time step. All the experiment parameters
are presented in Table 1.
Table 1. Experiment parameters of short-term aggregated residential load forecasting based on graph
neural networks and K-means clustering.
Parameter Value
Time length of the historical spatial–temporal graph series 12
Neuron number of the input transform layer 64
Activation function of the input transform layer ReLU
Number of ASTSGCLs 2
Number of ASTSGCMs 16
Number of graph convolutional layers 4
Time length of the sliding window 3
Activation function of graph convolutional layers ReLU
Number of the output transform layers 2
Neuron number of the output transform layers 128
Activation function of the output transform layers ReLU
Time length of the future spatial–temporal graph series 1
Learning rate 0.003
Optimization function Adam
Loss function Huber
Learning rate decay 0.3
Batch size 32
Training epoch 100
4.4. Experimental Results and Analysis
4.4.1. Effect of Different Numbers of Clusters on Forecasting Performance
In order to explore the effect of different numbers of clusters on the forecasting
performance of the proposed method, this paper set the number of clusters K as an integral
value from 3 to 17 respectively to perform aggregated residential load forecasting. Table 2
describes the forecasting performance of the proposed method for different numbers of
clusters and different adjacency matrices. It can be easily seen that as the number of clusters
K changes from 3 to 17, the forecasting error of the proposed method firstly decreases
and then increases as a whole, although there is a certain degree of fluctuation during the
change in the number of clusters K. Moreover, it is noted that when the number of clusters
K is 12, the proposed method obtains the minimum MAE, MAPE, and RMSE values. That
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 13 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 13 of 19
is to say, the proposed method achieves the optimal forecasting performance when the
number of clusters K is 12.
Table 2. Forecasting performance of the proposed method for different numbers of clusters and
different adjacency matrices 1.
Number of Clusters
MAE (kW) MAPE (%) RMSE (kW)
0–1 ρ 0–1 ρ 0–1 ρ
K = 3 49.7 49 2.3 2.2 72.5 69.3
K = 4 49.8 49.9 2.3 2.3 71.9 71.1
K = 5 52.5 51 2.4 2.3 76.2 72.2
K = 6 58.4 51.6 2.6 2.4 74.4 72.4
K = 7 52.4 51.3 2.5 2.3 71.7 71.8
K = 8 58.4 49.1 2.8 2.3 79.0 68.5
K = 9 49.7 45.8 2.2 2.1 70.7 64.2
K = 10 47.9 47.1 2.2 2.2 66.4 65
K = 11 49.7 46.2 2.3 2.1 68.9 64.7
K = 12 45.5 44.8 2.1 2.0 64.1 63
K = 13 48.5 47.7 2.2 2.2 69.9 66.8
K = 14 47.6 47.5 2.2 2.2 65.9 65.9
K = 15 49.6 49.5 2.4 2.3 68.3 70.0
K = 16 48.4 45.1 2.3 2.1 66.6 63.4
K = 17 53.2 48.6 2.4 2.2 76.0 68.9
1 0–1 denotes the first method for constructing the adjacency matrix, and ρ denotes the second method for
constructing the adjacency matrix.
Furthermore, it is obvious in Table 2 that regardless of the number of clustersK, the
second method for constructing the adjacency matrix can generally improve the forecasting
performance of the proposed method, compared to the first method for constructing the
adjacency matrix. To be specific, the main reason for that can be explained as follows. The
second method can not only reflect whether there is a correlation relationship between
different nodes through the Pearson correlation coefficient, but also precisely quantify the
correlation relationship, therefore helping the proposed method to accurately capture the
potential spatial–temporal features of the spatial–temporal graph series. However, the
first method can only roughly reflect whether there is a correlation relationship between
different nodes based on ones or zeros. For example, when the optimal number of clusters
K is 12, based on the second method, the proposed method can obtain an MAE reduction
of 1.5%, an MAPE reduction of 4.8%, and an RMSE reduction of 1.7%, compared to the
first method.
4.4.2. Performance Comparison of Short-Term Aggregated Residential Load Forecasting
In this paper, in order to verify the superiority of the proposed method (namely
ASTSGCN), long short-term memory (LSTM), random forest (RF), support vector regression
(SVR), and decision tree (DT) were selected as benchmark methods to compare with the
proposed method. It is noted that the input of all benchmark methods is the historical
aggregated load profile of all residential customers, while the output is the total load
forecast of all residential customers at the next time step.
Table 3 presents the performance comparison of different forecasting methods. It
is noted that the forecasting performance metrics of the proposed method refer to those
obtained by the proposed method on the basis of the second method for constructing the
adjacency matrix when the optimal number of clusters K is 12. As can be seen from Table 3,
the proposed method obtains the best forecasting performance in terms of MAE, MAPE,
and RMSE. In other words, compared to all benchmark methods, the proposed method
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 14 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 14 of 19
obtains different reductions in the three forecasting performance metrics. For instance,
compared to the LSTM method, which has the optimal forecasting performance among all
benchmark methods, the proposed method can still obtain an MAE reduction of 23.3%, an
MAPE reduction of 28.6%, and an RMSE reduction of 20.9%.
Table 3. Performance comparison of different forecasting methods.
Forecasting Methods MAE (kW) MAPE (%) RMSE (kW)
LSTM 58.4 2.8 79.6
RF 70.1 3.1 102.6
SVR 158.9 6.2 280.5
DT 69.7 3.1 99.6
ASTSGCN 44.8 2.0 63.0
In addition, Figure 6 depicts the aggregated load profiles of all residential customers
by different forecasting methods on a certain day. It is obvious in Figure 6 that com-
pared to those of all benchmark methods, the forecasted aggregated load profile of the
proposed method is much closer to the real aggregated load profile (namely GT). As a
result, it is proved that the proposed method has the superior forecasting performance to all
benchmark methods.
Figure 6. Aggregated load profiles of all residential customers by different forecasting methods on a
certain day.
In order to further illustrate the performance improvement of the proposed method in
terms of aggregated residential load forecasting, Figure 7 depicts the forecasting perfor-
mance comparison of different methods on the aggregated load of each cluster of residential
customers (K = 12). It can be clearly seen from Figure 7 that compared to all benchmark
methods, the proposed method generally obtains different reductions in both MAE and
RMSE regardless of each cluster, thereby decreasing the overall forecasting error. Hence,
the proposed method has significant superiority over all benchmark methods in terms of
aggregated residential load forecasting.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 15 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 15 of 19
Figure 7. Forecasting performance comparison on the aggregated load of each cluster of residential
customers (K = 12).
Furthermore, in order to analyze the correlation between the electricity consumption
pattern of each cluster of residential customers and the forecasting performance, Figure 8
presents the daily aggregated load profiles of each cluster of residential customers in a
certain month (K = 12). As can be seen from Figure 8, the aggregated load of the residential
customers of the first, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, 10th, and 11th clusters
is much greater, and there is stronger regularity in the daily aggregated load profiles.
Hence, the proposed method achieves a higher forecasting accuracy for those clusters. By
comparison, the aggregated load of the residential customers of the second, third, and
12th clusters is relatively smaller, and there is higher volatility and uncertainty in the daily
aggregated load profiles, therefore having a slightly negative effect on the forecasting
accuracy of the proposed method. The main reason for this is that when the aggregated
load of each cluster of residential customers has stronger regularity, the proposed method
can improve the forecasting accuracy for each cluster effectively by capturing the spatial
correlation between electricity consumption behaviors of different clusters of residential
customers. Otherwise, it will affect the forecasting accuracy of the proposed method
negatively. In addition, it is obvious in Figure 7 that for the first and ninth clusters, the
forecasting accuracy of the proposed method is slightly lower than that of the RF method.
That is primarily because there is a certain degree of fluctuation in the aggregated load of
the residential customers of the first and ninth clusters, especially during the time period
from the fifth time step to the thirty-fifth time step.
4.4.3. Characteristic Analysis of Adaptive Adjacency Matrices
In order to further analyze the characteristics of the adaptive adjacency matrix of the
localized spatial–temporal graph, the adjacency matrix of the spatial graph was constructed
by the first and second methods respectively, and then the corresponding mask matrix
was optimized based on training, finally obtaining the adaptive adjacency matrix of the
localized spatial–temporal graph. Figures 9 and 10 present the adaptive adjacency matrix
of the localized spatial–temporal graph obtained based on the first and second methods
respectively (K = 12). As can be seen clearly in Figures 9 and 10, the spatial correlation
among the first, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, 10th, and 11th clusters of
residential customers is generally stronger, while the spatial correlation among the second,
third, and 12th clusters of residential customers is comparatively weaker. In addition,
although the adjacency matrix of the spatial graph constructed by the first method is quite
different from that constructed by the second method, the adaptive adjacency matrices
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 16 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 16 of 19
of the localized spatial–temporal graph finally obtained based on these two methods are
almost the same, therefore effectively ensuring the accuracy of aggregated residential load
forecasting. That is mainly because the proposed method can adaptively learn to obtain the
corresponding mask matrix. Thus, it can be inferred that the proposed method is capable
of adaptively learning to capture the potential spatial correlation between different nodes.
Furthermore, it is obvious in Table 2 that compared to the first method, the second method
utilizes the actual Pearson correlation coefficient to precisely characterize the potential
spatial correlation between different nodes, thereby improving the forecasting accuracy. As
a result, it can be inferred that the reasonably constructed adjacency matrix of the spatial
graph can contribute to the improvement of the forecasting accuracy of the proposed
method to some extent.
Figure 8. Daily aggregated load profiles of each cluster of residential customers in a certain month (K = 12).
Figure 9. Adaptive adjacency matrix of the localized spatial–temporal graph obtained based on the
first method (K = 12).
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 17 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 17 of 19
Figure 10. Adaptive adjacency matrix of the localized spatial–temporal graph obtained based on the
second method (K = 12).
5. Conclusions
This paper proposed a short-term aggregated residential load forecasting method,
which integrates graph neural networks with K-means clustering to effectively address
the issue of spatial–temporal correlation in aggregated residential load forecasting. The
proposed method combines K-means clustering with the Pearson correlation coefficient
to construct the spatial–temporal graph series for aggregated residential load forecasting,
and utilizes ASTSGCNs to extract both the temporal correlation of residential load and
the spatial correlation between electricity consumption behaviors of adjacent residential
customers. The effect of the number of clusters on the proposed method is explored, and
the comparison results have shown that the optimal number of clusters can be found out to
achieve the best forecasting performance. Moreover, in comparison with various benchmark
methods, the proposed method has substantially improved the accuracy of aggregated
residential load forecasting. The characteristic analysis of the adaptive adjacency matrix of
the localized spatial–temporal graph is further conducted, and the experimental results
have indicated that it can accurately characterize the potential spatial correlation between
different nodes, therefore contributing to the improvement of the forecasting accuracy of
the proposed method.
A future study will focus on different clustering techniques to combine with graph
neural networks and explore their effects on aggregated residential load forecasting. A
variety of hyperparameter fine-tuning techniques will also be further investigated to
achieve the optimal forecasting performance. In addition, various internal and external
factors, such as electric vehicles, distributed generation, weather, and electricity price, will
be integrated as the explicit input features of aggregated residential load forecasting in
order to further improve the forecasting performance.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, F.H. and J.Q.; methodology, F.H.; software, H.Y.; valida-
tion, F.H.; formal analysis, F.H.; investigation, H.Y.; resources, J.Q.; data curation, Z.W.; writing—
original draft preparation, F.H.; writing—review and editing, Z.W.; visualization, H.Y.; supervision,
J.Q.; project administration, J.Q.; funding acquisition, J.Q. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was jointly funded by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Distri-
bution Networks Situation Awareness and Fault Recovery Methods Based on Machine Learning with
Human Intervention, Grant Number 52307153), and Beijing Municipal Science & Technology Com-
mission (Fundamental Time Series Model for Renewable Energy Generation and Load Forecasting
of Urban Power Networks Based on Generative Artificial Intelligence, Grant Number 20250484878).
The APC was funded by China Electric Power Research Institute Co., Ltd.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 18 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 18 of 19
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Restrictions apply to the availability of these data. Data were obtained
from Commission for Energy Regulation in Ireland and are available at https://issda.ucd.ie/dataset.
xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7929/ISSDA/BX59EU (accessed on 21 March 2018) with the permission of
Commission for Energy Regulation in Ireland.
Conflicts of Interest: Authors Fujia Han, Ji Qiao, Hao Yu, and Zibo Wang were employed by China
Electric Power Research Institute Co., Ltd. The remaining authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a
potential conflict of interest.
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:
ASTSGCN Adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional network
ASTSGCL Adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional layer
ASTSGCM Adaptive spatial–temporal synchronous graph convolutional module
MAPE Mean absolute percentage error
MAE Mean absolute error
RMSE Root mean squared error
LSTM Long short-term memory
RF Random forest
SVR Support vector regression
DT Decision tree
GT Ground truth
References
1. Han, F.; Wang, X. Adaptive individual residential load forecasting based on deep learning and dynamic mirror descent.Front.
Energy Res. 2023, 10, 986146. [CrossRef]
2. Sajjad, M.; Khan, Z.A.; Ullah, A.; Hussain, T.; Ullah, W.; Lee, M.Y.; Baik, S.W. A novel CNN-GRU-based hybrid approach for
short-term residential load forecasting. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 143759–143768. [CrossRef]
3. Stephen, B.; Tang, X.; Harvey, P .R.; Galloway, S.; Jennett, K.I. Incorporating practice theory in sub-profile models for short term
aggregated residential load forecasting. IEEE T rans. Smart Grid 2017, 8, 1591–1598. [CrossRef]
4. Liu, D.; Zeng, L.; Li, C.; Ma, K.; Chen, Y.; Cao, Y. A distributed short-term load forecasting method based on local weather
information. IEEE Syst. J. 2018, 12, 208–215. [CrossRef]
5. Yin, L.; Sun, Z.; Gao, F.; Liu, H. Deep forest regression for short-term load forecasting of power systems. IEEE Access 2020,
8, 49090–49099. [CrossRef]
6. Chen, K.; Chen, K.; Wang, Q.; He, Z.; Hu, J.; He, J. Short-term load forecasting with deep residual networks. IEEE T rans. Smart
Grid 2019, 10, 3943–3952. [CrossRef]
7. Deng, Z.; Wang, B.; Xu, Y.; Xu, T.; Liu, C.; Zhu, Z. Multi-scale convolutional neural network with time-cognition for multi-step
short-term load forecasting. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 88058–88071. [CrossRef]
8. Li, S.; Wang, P .; Goel, L. A novel wavelet-based ensemble method for short-term load forecasting with hybrid neural networks
and feature selection. IEEE T rans. Power Syst. 2016, 31, 1788–1798. [CrossRef]
9. Álvarez, V .; Mazuelas, S.; Lozano, J.A. Probabilistic load forecasting based on adaptive online learning.IEEE T rans. Power Syst.
2021, 36, 3668–3680. [CrossRef]
10. Rafiei, M.; Niknam, T.; Aghaei, J.; Shafie-Khah, M.; Catalão, J.P .S. Probabilistic load forecasting using an improved wavelet neural
network trained by generalized extreme learning machine. IEEE T rans. Smart Grid 2018, 9, 6961–6971. [CrossRef]
11. Sun, X.; Luh, P .B.; Cheung, K.W.; Guan, W.; Michel, L.D.; Venkata, S.S.; Miller, M.T. An efficient approach to short-term load
forecasting at the distribution level. IEEE T rans. Power Syst. 2016, 31, 2526–2537. [CrossRef]
12. Cao, Z.; Wan, C.; Zhang, Z.; Li, F.; Song, Y. Hybrid ensemble deep learning for deterministic and probabilistic low-voltage load
forecasting. IEEE T rans. Power Syst. 2020, 35, 1881–1897. [CrossRef]
13. Dong, M.; Grumbach, L. A hybrid distribution feeder long-term load forecasting method based on sequence prediction. IEEE
T rans. Smart Grid2020, 11, 470–482. [CrossRef]
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978

--- Page 19 ---
Sensors 2026, 26, 4978 19 of 19
14. Wang, Y.; Chen, Q.; Hong, T.; Kang, C. Review of smart meter data analytics: Applications, methodologies, and challenges. IEEE
T rans. Smart Grid2019, 10, 3125–3147. [CrossRef]
15. Proedrou, E. A comprehensive review of residential electricity load profile models. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 12114–12133. [CrossRef]
16. Mamun, A.A.; Sohel, M.; Mohammad, N.; Sunny, M.S.H.; Dipta, D.R.; Hossain, E. A comprehensive review of the load forecasting
techniques using single and hybrid predictive models. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 134911–134939. [CrossRef]
17. Hong, T.; Pinson, P .; Wang, Y.; Weron, R.; Yang, D.; Zareipour, H. Energy forecasting: A review and outlook.IEEE Open Access J.
Power Energy 2020, 7, 376–388. [CrossRef]
18. Ge, L.; Xian, Y.; Wang, Z.; Gao, B.; Chi, F.; Sun, K. Short-term load forecasting of regional distribution network based on
generalized regression neural network optimized by grey wolf optimization algorithm. CSEE J. Power Energy Syst. 2021,
7, 1093–1101.
19. Afrasiabi, M.; Mohammadi, M.; Rastegar, M.; Stankovic, L.; Afrasiabi, S.; Khazaei, M. Deep-Based conditional probability density
function forecasting of residential loads. IEEE T rans. Smart Grid 2020, 11, 3646–3657. [CrossRef]
20. Krannichfeldt, L.V .; Wang, Y.; Hug, G. Online ensemble learning for load forecasting.IEEE T rans. Power Syst. 2021, 36, 545–548.
[CrossRef]
21. Gong, H.; Rallabandi, V .; Mcintyre, M.L.; Hossain, E.; Ionel, D.M. Peak reduction and long term load forecasting for large
residential communities including smart homes with energy storage. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 19345–19355. [CrossRef]
22. Park, K.; Yoon, S.; Hwang, E. Hybrid load forecasting for mixed-use complex based on the characteristic load decomposition by
pilot signals. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 12297–12306. [CrossRef]
23. Oprea, S.V .; Bâra, A. Machine learning algorithms for short-term load forecast in residential buildings using smart meters, sensors
and big data solutions. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 177874–177889. [CrossRef]
24. Goehry, B.; Goude, Y.; Massart, P .; Poggi, J.M. Aggregation of multi-scale experts for bottom-up load forecasting.IEEE T rans.
Smart Grid 2020, 11, 1895–1904. [CrossRef]
25. Wang, Y.; Chen, Q.; Sun, M.; Kang, C.; Xia, Q. An ensemble forecasting method for the aggregated load with subprofiles.IEEE
T rans. Smart Grid2018, 9, 3906–3908. [CrossRef]
26. Kong, W.; Dong, Z.Y.; Jia, Y.; Hill, D.J.; Xu, Y.; Zhang, Y. Short-term residential load forecasting based on LSTM recurrent neural
network. IEEE T rans. Smart Grid 2019, 10, 841–851. [CrossRef]
27. Lin, F.; Zhang, Y.; Zhao, H.; Huo, W.; Wang, J. Short-term probabilistic forecasting for regional PV power based on convolutional
graph neural network and parameter transferring. IEEE T rans. Power Syst. 2025, 40, 2724–2736. [CrossRef]
28. Yang, M.; Ju, C.; Huang, Y.; Guo, Y.; Jia, M. Short-term power forecasting of wind farm cluster based on global information
adaptive perceptual graph convolution network. IEEE T rans. Sustain. Energy 2024, 15, 2063–2076. [CrossRef]
29. Liu, X.; Zhang, Y.; Zhen, Z.; Xu, F.; Wang, F.; Mi, Z. Spatio-temporal graph neural network and pattern prediction based
ultra-short-term power forecasting of wind farm cluster. IEEE T rans. Ind. Appl. 2024, 60, 1794–1803. [CrossRef]
30. Cui, Z.; Henrickson, K.; Ke, R.; Wang, Y. Traffic graph convolutional recurrent neural network: A deep learning framework for
network-scale traffic learning and forecasting. IEEE T rans. Intell. T ransp. Syst.2020, 21, 4883–4894. [CrossRef]
31. Chen, Y.; Guo, J.; Wang, K.; Yang, D.; Yan, X.; Qiu, L. LG-STSGCN: Long-term gated pedestrian trajectory prediction based on
spatial-temporal synchronous graph convolutional network. IEEE Sens. Lett. 2025, 9, 6003704. [CrossRef]
32. Han, F.; Pu, T.; Li, M.; Taylor, G. Short-term forecasting of individual residential load based on deep learning and K-means
clustering. CSEE J. Power Energy Syst. 2021, 7, 261–269. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s26154978
